the quality of the S&Ps actually
improved the valuation. Yes, it's high,
but it's justified in our minds.
>> Businesses are still in a really, really
good spot.
>> Corporate America has a lot more
difficult decisions to make this
quarter.
>> It's not all easy. I think this is going
to be somewhat messy in this reporting
season.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday at all-time highs, the Max
7 putting together nine consecutive days
of gains ahead of earnings. The Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson pushing for a
review of the Federal Reserve and
quarterly results from General Motors
expected to highlight the impact of
trade policy. Those numbers 30 minutes
away.
>> To me, earnings take center stage this
week. And it's not just the tech
earnings as you just pointed out. It's
also GM. It's also Coca-Cola. Remember
Maha, make America healthy again and the
potential for uh sugar to be used rather
than refined corn syrup. There's also
this question about Loheed Martin and
how much orders are coming from
overseas. That also is coming this
morning. The second biggest week for
earnings that we're going to be getting.
For me, it's all about GM because the
25% levy on the auto sector still exists
right now. We heard from GM back in May
was that they were going to try to
mitigate the tariff impact about 30%.
But the CEO, Mary Borrow, wouldn't say
whether or not any of that would be
passed on. So, how have they been able
to do it? They did come out and say that
they were going to invest more in the
plants in the United States. Was that
just to assuage the concerns of this
administration or they actually do it?
And is it helping?
>> The numbers drop at 6:30 Eastern time.
For many of us, we're just reheating an
old story. the narrowness of this
market, the dependence on a handful of
stocks to drive this equity market to
fresh all-time highs,
>> which is the reason why people are so
interested in Alphabet and Tesla
tomorrow. I will say Verizon, the most
boring of boring companies, fascinating
yesterday. It came out with earnings and
some of the non- tech companies have
been so interesting because they
highlight the one big beautiful bill and
how much that's padded their earnings
out with an understanding of just what
tax advantage they'll get with uh
capital expenditures. These are the
types of things I'm watching to
understand exactly how broad-based this
could be or whether it stays super
narrow.
>> There's a word that's come up a few
times in the past week, clarity. When
you spoke to Scott Kirby, clarity. We
saw that from Delta Airlines as well,
the word clarity. Have they got the
clarity they need to invest again for
the back half of this year? And do they
expect consumers to have that very same
clarity to spend?
>> You're hearing that pretty much across
the board. I mean yes there are certain
places that are highlighting weakness
particularly in the lower income sectors
but otherwise pretty much across the
board you are feeling a greater sense of
certainty. It has come from the
legislation passed in Washington DC but
it also comes from this perception that
there is a ceiling on how high the
tariffs could potentially be and that's
the reason why I think it's really
interesting to see whether there's
perhaps an overco complacency around
where some of these trade talks. I'm
struggling with clarity right out of
Washington when it comes to trade talks.
Howard Lutnik says that the deals will
be done by August 1st and that is a hard
deadline. But you have the Treasury
Secretary continuously leaning into this
idea that a rush deal is not as good as
a good deal. They want a good deal
rather than a rush deal. He said this
when he left Japan. And then what did we
have very late last night? The Japanese
trade negotiator sitting down with the
commerce secretary. This was the
Japanese negotiators eighth trip to
Washington DC to try to get a deal over
the finish line. Can they get this done
by August 1st? And even if August 1st
comes, so the Howard Lutnik said it's a
hard deadline. The Treasury Secretary
seems to think things are a little bit
more fluid and flexible.
>> One official doubling down on deadlines,
another official deemphasizing
deadlines, and the press secretary
saying that maybe you could have some
trade letters going out before the
deadline. You up to speed?
>> This is the reason why people are
ignoring it all. What's the point of
even trying to keep track of the tally
when they're just basically talking
against each other and it's all one big
negotiation and this has been moved many
times before? I mean, what did we learn
from Tik Tok? Oh, that deal that it's 90
days.
>> It's a rolling 90 days.
>> It's a rolling 90 days. I It seems like
trade as well.
>> Record highs in the equity market.
Equity futures this morning down about a
tenth of 1%. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Matt Miskin of Manual
Life, John Hancock Investments with
stocks coming off alltime highs. Terry
Haynes of Pangia Policy as Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson calls for a
review of the Federal Reserve and
Bloomberg's Craig Trudel on earnings
from GM about 25 minutes away. We begin
this hour with stocks stalling after
hitting another all-time high as
investors await big tech earnings and
President Trump's next trade deadline.
Joining us now to discuss Matt Mskin of
John Hancock. Matt, welcome to the
program, sir. Just how fragile is this
record-breaking rally?
>> We're right back to where we were at the
beginning of the the year. John, it's
it's an extended market with really
multiples hitting on the at least the
four pees back to about 22 and a half.
You know, the highest in history is 24.
High yield spreads are down to 280. The
best tightest ever is 230. We're looking
at the riskier parts of the market. They
can't get much better than this. And you
can get that carry, you can get the
earnings growth. That is something we
are looking for here. But it's going to
be hard seedment wise to crank up the
dial anymore on risk tanking. And in our
view, now is a good time to go around a
portfolio, prune some risk, find some
places that are extended. And for us,
it's some of the momentum factor in the
United States and frankly some of the
European financials that have had an
amazing start to this year.
>> So Matt, you're not going to get away
with just saying that and moving on.
Talk to me about the financials that has
been the big winner of 2025. Why prune
those gains now?
>> You know, we've seen a steeper yo curve
here as as it's it's been nirvana.
You've had basically a central bank, at
least in the European Central Bank,
they've been cutting rates and now we're
hearing opening the fiscal floodgates.
is the is this is the term we're hearing
and really this is globally around the
world you're seeing governments say I'm
not going to fight the tariffs 101 what
I'm going to do is I'm going to take on
more debt and I'm going to stimulate my
own economy to basically fight the
economic ramifications of this and
really that is creating this huge rush
into more cyclical parts of non- US
equities China equities are on fire this
year European financials are doing
exceptionally Well, it is a very
counterintuitive market. You hear all
these tariff headlines and then you see
Chinese equities doing exceptionally
well. We're trying to mitigate polit
politics and portfolios because it's
it's not happening like you would think.
But in our view, you've had a great run.
It's a great time to take some profits.
>> Which raises the question, what isn't
expensive? What isn't overvalued? If
you're coming back to the United States,
well, we just hit, I believe, our 12th
record high on the NASDAQ. Our 10th
record high of just this year for the
S&P 500. was to say that it's not
overvalued in the United States.
>> It is, Lisa. And really what we're going
back to is boring old bonds. And we are
getting about a 5% yield on highquality
corporates and mortgage back securities.
5% to us is a great yield. And lo and
behold, if yields even come down a bit,
if the Fed does cut at the end of the
year, we think that's actually more
total return potential. If we even get
what we got on the first half and the
back half, we could get high single
digits out of bonds. We think that's a
lower volatility option. We're
increasing certainty in portfolios by
driving income versus looking for more
capital appreciation through multiple
expansion. We're not going to the
30-year Treasury in case you're going to
ask me that next. Uh but intermediate
part of the curve, relatively high
quality income producing assets look
attractive to us here. Matt, you've been
conservative over the past few months,
and this has been a market that's been
anything but conservative. You see the
FOMO trade starting to come back. How
hard is it to stick to this kind of uh
conviction of going long into bonds at a
time where the riskiest parts of the
market keep outperforming?
>> Yeah, having quality has not been a
great strategy this year. You really
wanted to dip into the most frothy,
lowest quality parts of the market. And
this does happen, Lisa, over time in
market cycles. And what we've seen time
and time again over this market cycle is
that this is usually a shorter term
tactical uh type trade. And this one is
a longer one. You know, the last 6
months, it's really been still this kind
of trade. But I mean, in April, it
certainly felt better to have higher
quality assets. In our view, it's going
to come back into favor in the back
half. We actually see a decelerating
growth environment, decelerating
inflation environment, and already
you're seeing an earnings. You just
talked about this. Who's at the top of
the the earnings growth? It's tech. It's
comm services. These are highquality
parts of the market. And then in the
bond market, I hear you. Credit spreads
have been grinding tighter, tighter,
tighter, tighter. And but how much more
tighter can they go? And even in
investment grade corporates, we're
keeping up with high yield. We think
that's actually pretty impressive given
how riskone this market's been.
>> Matt, when it comes to some of the
uncertainty out of Washington, a lot of
investors coming on the program are
talking about the concern of Fed
independence. Yesterday, we heard from
the Treasury Secretary calling for this
review. Are you concerned he's calling
for review of the Fed or maybe relieved
that also in this tweet he's emphasizing
the jewelbox of monetary policy, which
is Fed independence?
>> Yeah, I never had it on my bingo card
that I'd be reading Bloomberg articles
on the construction of the Fed building
uh for 2025, but here I am, you know,
like I mean, you guys have some great
articles. I'm like, okay, is this really
what I'm doing, though? I don't know if
this is going to lead to any changes in
monetary policy. I think even if you
have someone else that's there, they're
going to be using the same data and
looking at the same things and they're
going to tell you that basically they're
going to have to be on hold for the most
part and and what they're missing in our
view is that housing is slowing. Um and
that to us is going to take time to show
up in the data and by then they're going
to be behind the curve almost naturally.
Um and so we do think they should be
cutting more so or more likely to cut
here than not. Um but all this goes back
to the currency markets. Currency rules
everything around markets in 2025. The
bond market's not really caring that
much about this. Frankly, it's the
dollar that is against the ropes and the
dollar coming down is creating this
riskon impulse and that's actually
leading to more risk trades around the
world. And it's just a very
counterintuitive domino effect than what
you would think given this uncertainty
around the Fed.
>> So Matt, just finish on that. It's an
important note. We've seen a recovery in
credit. You talked about the tightness
of spreads. We've seen a recovery in the
equity market. We talked about the
leadership there. Why haven't we seen
the same recovery in the US dollar?
>> Yeah, I mean it's it's very
counterintuitive. We're looking at
interest rate differentials. Even
yesterday, John, I mean the European
yields were tumbling. The European short
end was falling more than the US short
end. No one cared. The dollar got
crushed. And why was that? Well, that
was right around those the headlines
that hit about more investigation around
this building, more investigation around
the Fed. And so, the currency markets
are the ones that are most sensitive to
the change in in maybe the Fed or or
basically all the uncertainty around
Powell. And really, it's about a capital
story flowing to Europe because of this
uncertainty. In our view, this is a very
tactical thing. This is a sentiment
driven thing and it could come back, but
the dollar technically has just gotten
annihilated this year. It's been against
the ropes. Like I said, I think the
sentiment is overdone. The hate is
overdone. In BFA manager surveys, it's
the most negative on the dollar in 20
years. To me, that's a good place to
look for a contrarian opportunity. But I
got to see the technicals turn because
it has just been a tough year for the
dollar.
>> A very crowded trade. Matt, I appreciate
your time. Matt Mezin there of Manual
Life, John Hancock, Investments on the
Federal Reserve later on this morning,
8:30 Eastern time. Chairman Pal.
>> Yeah. And he's not going to be talking
about any of this except that everyone's
going to be looking for him to talk
about this and really rebut the idea
that there has been this mission creep.
And I'm glad that Emory brought that up.
Everyone's focused on the renovations,
but what Scott Besson said yesterday I
thought was really interesting about a
full investigation into mission creep
that compromised its independence uh not
having to do with monetary policy. kind
of raising the spectre of exactly what
the gripe is that this administration
has with this Federal Reserve.
>> A conference on financial regulation
kicking off a little bit later.
>> Sounds insulating
>> this morning. Let's give an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Joining us now is
Jihara Arnand. Hey, Yahihara.
>> Good morning, John. Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessant is calling for an
exhaustive review of the Fed's
non-monetary policy operations,
including renovations to its
headquarters in Washington. In a post on
Xbant says that significant mission
creep may be jeopardizing the
independence of the central bank's core
mission to set monetary policy.
Meanwhile, trade negotiations are
continuing ahead of President Trump's
August 1st deadline. Press Secretary
Caroline Levit told reporters more
countries could receive tariff letters
before then. Trump is set to meet with
Philippine President Ferdinand Marcos
Jr. at the White House today.
And Black Rockck is restricting the use
of company devices in China. In an
internal memo seen by Bloomberg, the
world's largest asset manager told staff
to use temporary loaner phones and not
to bring company laptops when traveling
to China. This coming after a Wells
Fargo banker and US government employee
were blocked from leaving the country.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More on that story
later this hour. Up next on the program,
Chair Pal in the hot seat.
>> The Fed chair needs to lower interest
rates. The president is right about that
and finally people are catching up to
the president on that.
>> Up next, Terry Haynes of Pangier Policy
live from New York City this morning.
Good morning.
[Music]
It has been snoozing 18 18 consecutive
sessions without a 1% move in either
direction. Alex Seman over here at
Bloomberg saying that's the longest such
streak so far in 2025. Futures this
morning negative a tenth of 1%. On the
NASDAQ 100, we're down about 0.2. Yeah,
but in that boring morass, we've had 10
record highs on the S&P 500 and 12
record highs on the NASDAQ. So, the most
exhausting and sleepy sort of grind to
new highs that we've ever seen, maybe.
But here we are.
>> It's a welcome snooze. I wasn't
complaining.
>> Yeah, I know you keep threatening fate.
This is everyday cont. You're totally
doing this.
>> It's a nice summer Tuesday.
>> People in the newsroom were cursing you
yesterday. They were like, John had to
say that. He's absolutely foiled us. And
what happened? Absolutely nothing. Just
a nice summer Monday hopefully followed
by a nice summer Tuesday. Under Sylvanas
this morning, Chairman Pal in the hot
seat.
>> He has no plans to fire the Fed chair,
but he has been very transparent in
expressing his displeasure with Jerome
Powell's management of the Fed and also
his policies. If you look at our
country, by every economic metric right
now, it is booming. Look at inflation.
Like I said, continues to go down. and
he's basically defeated it in just 6
months. By all accounts, this is a good
economy. The Fed chair needs to lower
interest rates. The president is right
about that. And finally, people are
catching up to the president on that.
>> Here's the latest this morning. The
pressure on Fed Chair J Pal unrelenting.
Secretary Besson now calling for a
review of the central bank warning of
quote mission creep and institutional
growth. Bloomberg's Aalaga joins us now
for more from Washington DC. Aa welcome
back. What is the direction of travel
here? Where are we going with this?
Well, you just heard the White House
press secretary say yesterday that the
president has no plans to fire Jerome
Powell, but we already know that. He
said it himself. He's left the door open
still. That keyword plans there to
potentially doing that. We know this
administration is looking into this
Federal Reserve renovation project. But
something that happened yesterday is
Congresswoman Anna Paulina Luna made a
request to the Justice Department
accusing Fed Chair Jerome Powell of
lying under oath when he testified to
Congress in June. Now, it's important to
say the Fed chair says that he has been
consistent with his testimony that he
gave to Congress last month and the DOJ
isn't compelled to necessarily
investigate this, but we still have yet
to find out whether they will. But as
you mentioned, Treasury Secretary Scott
Bezant says he wants to see an
examination of the entire Federal
Reserve institution and whether or not
they have been successful. But there's
really two camps of thoughts here in the
Republican party. You have the likes of
Senate Majority Leader John Dune who's
really concerned about the independence
of the Fed and whether that could have a
negative market reaction. And then you
have people even like Speaker Mike
Johnson who have said that he believes
interest rates should come down based on
the direction of the economy. But at the
end of the day, this Fed chair's term is
up in May 2026. And President Trump says
he's only going to be looking at people
who want to lower interest rates. On the
list is also Bessant. Also Kevin Hasset,
the chief economist to the president.
And so if he picks someone from this
administration, they are more likely
probably to side with his viewpoint
here.
>> Will the president wait until May 2026?
We'll see. A Gandha down in Washington
DC. A thank you. Let's extend a
conversation with Terry Haynes of Pangia
Policy. Terry, good morning and welcome.
A couple of lines from the Treasury
Secretary, Scott Besson. Mission creep,
institutional growth. Terry, what's he
getting at?
Good morning, John. I'll add one more uh
which is internal as in internal review.
What Besson is calling for is the Fed to
look at its own non-monetary policy
regulatory uh operations and uh and
assess those, assess whether there's
been mission creep, assess how best to
focus. Uh so this is really indictment
is too strong a word but it's I I think
but it's uh it's a suggestion to the Fed
that what they need to be doing is
taking a look at their uh their
non-monetary policy operations firstly.
Secondly, uh it's a not so uh subtle uh
I dig at Congress, I think, because what
you have is a situation where Congress
loads a lot of these non-monetary policy
uh functions onto the Fed generally. And
you know, the Fed hasn't done this in a
quarter century or more. So, it's past
time that they do it. And uh I think
Bessant is making a nod in this
direction politically uh in part because
he has been he's trying to be helpful
firstly but he but secondly he's
counseledled uh Trump that in a in a
week particularly where you've got
earnings, you've got tariffs coming up
and you've got gold uh going up. Uh this
is definitely not the right time to be
shaking the markets with Powell.
>> Aa mentioned Representative Anna Paulina
Luna and her referral of Powell to the
DOJ. Does she have anything in common
with what the Treasury Secretary is
asking for?
>> Um, you know, it's uh what I found
interesting about uh about Luna's letter
to the Justice Department. Firstly, I
think it's a stunt and it doesn't go
anywhere. Uh but secondly, you by
looking at the Fed headquarters and the
building operations, uh what she's
bringing up wittingly or unwittingly is
the idea that uh you know, governors
other than Powell are involved in this.
And uh you know pal himself said once
before he was chair he was you know he
was the administrative governor meaning
looking over the the Fed's physical
operations that's done by other uh
governors right now and I think three of
them are are Biden appointees Biden
appointees that were confirmed by the
Democratic Senate. Um and you know what
Besson's looking at is kind of beyond
PAL. What are the governors up to?
What's the governors generally up to?
Why are they involved in mission creep?
And uh strangely that's the kind of
thing Luna's bringing up in her own
complaint, too.
>> So Terry, are you saying that this
criticism we see right now on Jay Powell
could potentially expand to other
individuals at the Federal Reserve?
>> I think that's entirely possible. I
mean, look at the the criticism that
Trump launched against then vice chair
for supervision bar. Uh that resulted in
in bar being replaced in that post by by
Governor Bowman. Uh so this is not new
for the White House firstly. Uh
secondly, you know, you had this
dovetales a lot into the mission creep
comment by Besson dovetales a lot into
what some candidates I think
particularly former governor wars have
been talking about when they say that
you know we need regime change at the
Fed. They're not, you know, Kevin's not
talking about, you know, only changing
out POW in that regard and we need a
different approach to to Fed policy
generally. That goes beyond POW that so
uh so I think we're looking at uh more
of the composition of the governors here
generally and again I think bars a
precedent that in that regard.
>> What's the goal here? I mean given the
fact that we've heard from the president
for quite a while that he doesn't want
to fire Jay Powell. He does think he
should lower interest rates, but he's
probably going to. Right now, the Fed's
on on path to uh cut rates by 25 basis
points twice for the remainder of this
year. Why are we hearing about this from
every hall of every congressional corner
right now in every iteration?
>> Oh, I think most, by the way, I think
most people in Congress are hiding out
from this. You know, they uh uh I I
don't think they want any part of this.
But what Trump's up to here is first of
all it's somebody pal somebody to blame.
Uh everything's going swimmingly as you
heard Carolyn Levit say in your uh in
your intro piece and everything's going
great that there's only one fly in the
punch bowl and that's pal who's Mr. Too
late Mr. not getting it. All the rest.
Beyond that, I think what they want is
uh they being not just Trump but people
like Bessant uh people like Governor
Worsh for example are talking about a
new and different sort of partnership
where policy goals are more aligned uh
even though the Fed is independent
policy goals are more aligned uh in kind
of a Fed Treasury alliance uh than they
are with the Fed as some kind of free
floating uh de facto fourth branch of
government. I think that's the longer
term game here. There is a conspiracy
theory that part of this and the
Washington commanders or Redskins and
getting renamed and last night the dump
of Martin Luther King Jr. files is all a
distraction technique. Do you just shrug
that off as being irrelevant or do you
think that there's something to that?
>> Um, you know, I think the presidents at
the uh the apogee of their power uh
exercise as much as they can however
they can. Uh Trump reminds me in in in
this one regard reminds me nothing. so
much as Theodore Roosevelt a century
plus ago uh you know running around
doing everything from strongarmming the
panameanians into building a canal to
rewriting the rules of American
football. So uh you know I that's very
much in in in in Trump's character and
he frankly sees the opportunity to do it
and if somebody tells him you know is
there a potential hook through which I
can exercise some influence uh he tends
to take it right now. Uh two years from
now maybe not so much. Terry Haynes of
Fang Geio Policy. Terry, appreciate the
update. Thank you, sir. On monetary
policy and central bank independence, of
course, of the utmost importance for a
lot of people. I get all that. It
doesn't mean the institution should be
on be beyond criticism both on the
monetary policy failures of the last
several years and on the regulatory
failures as well. I get that Wall Street
loves the individual leading the central
bank right now. A lot of people on Wall
Street love chairman power because
they've made a lot of money, but there
have been some serious failures over the
past few years
>> and a lot of academics have talked about
it. A lot of economists have pointed to
it and people could argue that the
inflation uh that we did see the surge
post pandemic was in part because this
Federal Reserve did not raise rates
quickly enough and then uh failed to
really respond in any kind of material
way. Look, there are real criticisms.
The question is what is the ultimate
goal and does it compromise the
perception of independence?
>> Got some good news for you. What's that?
We can talk about something else up next
on the program. We can talk about
earnings. Earnings from GM just around
the corner. Plus, we'll catch up with
Danny Burgerer with your morning movers
as M&A heats up.
[Music]
Nine straight days of gains for Mac 7
stocks. It's a stellar run. Longest
winning streak going back to November
2023. Equity futures this morning
negative by about a tenth of 1% pulling
back from alltime highs on both the S&P
and on the NASDAQ with three hours into
the opening bell. Let's get you some
morning movers. Let's cross over to
Danny Burger. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. The railroad operator CSX
gaining in the pre-market 4 and a half%.
This off the back of a report from
Semaphore that Bergkshire Hathaways BNSF
is looking at acquiring one of its
rivals. It's hired Goldman Sachs to do
so. It's not clear what exact company it
would be looking at, but really the only
options are CSX or Northfor Southern. So
those shares are gaining this morning.
Now at the same time we had earnings
from NXP. This is the Dutch chipmaker
though listed here in the US and it
seemed that it was a disappointment when
it came to their outlook for the next
quarter. Half of the company's exposure
is to the automative industry in terms
of where they sell their chips to. So
some real stress there in terms of
supply chain issues when it comes to
tariffs cost there. Also slow down EV
demand shares falling nearly 6% this
morning. Finally, Open Door. It's a
relatively small company, but I wanted
to bring this one up because it would
seem as if the meme stock trade was
back. Someone tweeted on X, which made
its way to Wall Street Bets. Something
positive about the company. Maybe it's
not important what they actually said,
but the important thing is is that this
thing yesterday surged 121% at one
point. In fact, the trading was so heavy
that this individual stock made up 10%
of all equity trading yesterday. It is
gaining again in the pre-market up 13%
giving some of those 20 2021 mean stock
vibes John
>> a massive move that's for sure big
reminder of way back then Danny thank
you Danny with the latest movers one
more for you numbers from GM just dro in
moments ago as a beat on the top and
bottom line the initial number 253 on
EPS for the second quarter the estimate
233 the team's going to run through the
details we'll come back to that story in
a few minutes time on our radar this
morning Treasury Secretary Scott Besson
is calling for a review of the Federal
Reserve warning X quote mission creep
and institutional growth risk
jeopardizing the central bank's
independence towards monetary policy.
>> So I keep coming back to what's the goal
because we keep hearing and Caroline
Levit yesterday said that the president
has no intention of firing Fed chair Jay
Powell. Now it's expanding out to other
potential appointees as well as some of
the other initiatives that have been
pulled back at the Federal Reserve. Is
the goal to change the composition? Is
the goal to have a scapegoat? Is the
goal distraction? Is the goal something
else? This to me is more important
possibly than even some of these
missives because the market's largely
shrugging it off at this point as just
ongoing noise unless you get some sort
of uh real pushing out of Fed Sher J.
Powell doesn't really move the dial. Not
shruging shrugging it off right now
though is the Federal Reserve. They put
out yesterday a 6-minute 23 second video
detailing all the refurbishments that
are needed and the renovations that are
needed. basically saying how office
space expansion at the rear of 1951 and
atrium of this 1951 building going
through why they had to use specific
plaster when it comes to making sure
they're up to par with government
regulations. They are doing their best
to try to get ahead of this because they
know this is going to continue and
definitely going to continue into May of
next year.
>> Next week tomorrow there's a Federal
Reserve meeting and it could break in a
rather doubbish fashion. In that
statement in the first paragraph they
say labor market conditions remain
solid. Well, we know Governor Waller
doesn't share that view. Others might
not either. So, you could see a change
in the language there and much more of a
dovish bias start to be built into the
Federal Reserve as we work our way
through the summer. So, I think we
always have to say take a step back with
this conversation. Yes, the White House
wants rate cuts. No, the Fed is not
delivering them right now and might not
next week either. But the gap between
where they want to be and what the Fed's
about to do is not that large. The
Federal Reserve is about to cut interest
rates. There's a doubbish bias. They're
probably going to cut in September. And
at the moment the data is breaking in
that direction.
>> This is the reason why I say why now?
Because ultimately they're undermining
their own argument. If you overlay that
potential rate cut with some sort of
political motivation, you're undermining
the economic case that so many uh
economists are making. So at what point
are you're shooting yourself in your fa,
you know, cutting your nose off despite
your face kind of thing. I'm mixing
metaphors. It's a Tuesday.
>> It's a quiet Tuesday.
>> It's a quiet Tuesday and we're talking
about renovations. I just keep going
back to that. What is their ultimate
goal? still asking that question. I'm
just going to answer with all of the
above.
>> All of the above.
>> I'm sure you're right.
>> Let's move to this story. Commerce
Secretary Hamtt Landing meeting with
Japan's chief trade negotiator Monday
evening in Washington. According to
Japan, the pair had in-depth discussions
aiming towards a mutually beneficial
agreement.
>> So, this was the eighth trip of the
trade negotiator to Washington DC to
have these formal discussion. It also
comes on the heels of the Treasury
Secretary going to Japan for the world
expo to his words, but come on. He met
with the prime minister of Sheba and
they're trying to get this deal their
finish line. And when he left, he put
out this tweet that I think was really
important because it goes against what
Howard Lutnik's tone has been, which is
August 1st is a hard and fast deadline.
People can of course call, but that's
the deadline. The Treasury Secretary
said a good deal is more important than
a rush deal. And this gives the sense
that they're willing to give trading
partners that are in are in these
in-depth discussions a little bit more
time if they're not done by the
deadline.
>> If there was a league table for getting
a deal done with the United States of
America a few months ago, Japan was top
of the league. The EU was bottom of the
table. We've seen a complete reversal in
the past few months.
>> And what happened an election and this
is something that we increasingly have
to look at the domestic ramifications
from the increasing trade tension and
how much that is affecting some of the
more populous bent that you're seeing in
a number of countries as well as what
the cost will be to pay for some of the
requests coming from the White House
internationally.
>> A lot of tension between the US, the
White House and various trade partners.
A lot of tension with China. Take a look
at this. Black Rockck restricting the
use of company devices in China.
According to an internal memo seen by
Bloomberg, employees were told to use
loaner phones and leave company laptops
behind while traveling to the country
for business.
>> My question was the were they actually
still using their real phones in their
corporate uh their corporate laptops
before? Because pretty much everyone who
I've talked to who goes to China on a
business trip ends up using burner
phones and burner laptops. It just
heightens this question of how do you do
business in a country that you can't get
a concrete sense of what the rules of
the land are and whether you could
potentially be used as a chip in this
sort of tip fort between the US and
>> I was shocked when I read this story
because in 2021 we saw new laws come out
of China that tightened data security
and anyone that goes to a country like
China like Iran like Russia like myself
I have never you don't bring personal
phones or personal laptops into these
countries that is standard operating
procedure so it's so confusing that
they've only decided to do this now. And
I wonder who else is out there not
actually going in with burners because
they should probably take a look at that
when it comes to compliance.
>> We all have the same reaction to this
story, I think, when it broke. That's
the latest on Black Rockck and China.
Here's the latest on GM earnings
dropping just moments ago. Joining us
now is Bloomberg's Craig Tredell. Craig,
the stock is lower by 2.65%. Have we
just put a price the price of tariffs
coming from the White House?
Yeah, this was a company that I think
took a lot of uh people off guard when
they announced earlier this year uh as
much as a $5 billion hit to their bottom
line as a result of of tariffs. And it
it sort of uh you know your your initial
reaction to that is wait a second this
is an American company that builds a lot
of cars in America. That is true. And
yet they also build a lot of vehicles in
Canada, in Mexico, in South Korea, which
a lot of people uh, you know, don't have
a a sort of full appreciation for. And
the extent to which they're going to
have to to sort of shake up their
production network to uh account for the
fact that these uh that these tariffs,
you know, may or may not uh stay in
place. I think to this point we've seen
Mary Bar really sort of take the Trump
administration at its word that we are
not going to to go back to uh the way it
it was. And so, you know, this is a a
manufacturer that, you know, as of last
year was going to uh build electric
vehicles at one of its plants in
Michigan. It's now going to build uh you
know, big uh combustion uh pickups and
SUVs there. And and that will allow for
uh more production of of big SUVs down
in in Texas. So, uh, you know, kind of
pulling back a little bit from its
transition to electric vehicles and and
kind of battening down the hatches
because of of just how impactful these
tariffs are going to be. There's some
bad news and some good news this
morning. The bad news is that net income
declined 35% in the second quarter of
this year compared to last year. The
good news, Craig, is that a lot of
analysts and investors have priced a lot
of this in. I just want to understand
whether the underlying business is
receiving the kind of demand that's
reflected of an economy still doing
okay.
Yeah, I I think it's fair to say that I
do think that there's some real concern
about uh just how much uh kind of pull
forward demand uh this industry saw
ahead of tariffs uh hitting uh you know
this this uh we we've you know talked a
lot about you know taco and and Trump
chickening out. This is one sector where
he has not in any way sort of uh
chickened out or pulled back. there's
maybe been some incremental relief for
the industry, but these are are uh tough
uh duties that that this uh that that
car car makers and their suppliers are
are facing and it's one where you know
when Trump talks about ways in which in
his mind uh the US is being taken
advantage of it's it's kind of the
sector that he jumps to first and so I
think you know executives like Mary Bar
and and her peers are sort of you know
rethinking you know just just how likely
it is that they're going to be able to
to sort of negotiate sub substantial
relief uh from this White House.
>> But Craig, I was under the uh assumption
that if you're USMCA compliant, at least
with Mexico and Canada, you're not
facing that 25%. So where exactly are
the tariffs hitting?
Yeah, there there are complex mechanisms
with how exactly uh trade is going to
change between uh partners and I don't
think that we can necessarily take it uh
take for granted that there may be some
changes to that. Of course uh when we re
renegotiate USMCA which uh you know
Trump has made quite clear that he's not
happy with uh where things stand there.
Uh I think uh you know the the Korea uh
element of this is a substantial
portion. Uh but there's also just you
know real sort of change again in in the
production network these moves uh that
that the company is making sort of on a
dime to go from you know making EVs in
in Orian in their assembly plant in
Michigan to now uh making you know
pickups and SUVs there. You know that
that costs substantial money and that's
investment that needs to be made now in
order for production to start you know
two years out from now. And so we're
we're going to see some of those hits to
to company's bottom lines now, even if
if we don't necessarily see a a
substantial change in what's coming out
off the assembly lines for some time.
>> Craig, I'm just wondering if we can
glean anything from this earnings report
for tomorrow and what we hear from
Tesla.
>> Yeah, I I I think GM uh, you know, sort
of quietly sort of under the radar had a
heck of a second quarter in in terms of
EV sales in the US. They've roughly
doubled their their sales. Uh, I think
you know Tesla of course is still very
dominant in in the US EV segment, but
that is a segment that really has a lot
of dark clouds hanging over it given
what the Trump administration has done
and is doing. Uh, the big beautiful bill
didn't just take away uh tax credits uh
for EV purchases. Uh, you know,
Republicans also zeroed out penalties
for not meeting fuel economy standards.
And we know that one of the big sort of
sources of of revenue for Tesla over the
years has been not from selling cars,
but from selling regulatory credits to
other manufacturers who haven't made
enough EVs, haven't sold enough of them,
and need help with meeting uh these
rules that are now going to be watered
down and, you know, more or less done
away with. and how how much is that a
drag on Tesla beyond some some of the
factors that get more attention which is
you know the potential damage that that
Elon Musk is doing to his own company's
brand.
>> One thing that we saw with the
financials was uh we saw them cross
pretty high hurdles and their stock
sales sold off. We're seeing GM shares
lower by 2.3% in the immediate reaction.
It's not necessarily the final one, but
these numbers, as John was mentioning,
were pretty good in a number of ways,
and their estimate for the year ahead
was pretty much in line with what they
had said before, an estimate. So, is
this just a matter of expectations being
really high or just the fact that people
have soured on this name and don't think
it's tradable right now?
>> Yeah, I mean, I I think we've actually
seen, you know, some relief in in uh
this sector. our our our very own Esha
Day had a great uh story to begin the
week about how car stocks have actually
gone from you know getting beaten up
pretty good to to coming back a little
bit. So we may uh you know we may be
seeing that that uh there there's a bit
of a a sort of higher bar in order to
kind of keep and and maintain those
gains. Uh but we also should you know
keep in mind just yesterday to your
point about uh the the sort of final
verdict uh you know remains to be seen
uh Stellantis we saw really ugly numbers
out of them yesterday and that was a
stock that went from down substantially
early in the day to finishing finishing
up and so I think there's a lot of sort
of grappling with you know the the
extent to which uh the these impacts are
are lasting uh you know maybe some some
willingness to look past uh the fact
that these are adjustments that, you
know, these companies have no choice but
to to make. And GM, I think, is is in a
much stronger position than a lot of its
peers in terms of, you know, still
continuing to make substantial money off
of its trucks and SUVs in the US. And
the demand for those is still extremely
strong. I think they're also making some
progress and turning things around in in
China. They're not getting back to where
they used to be, but they're no longer
uh losing money on a sort of quarter by
quarter basis. And that's an important
development to to keep an eye on as
well.
>> Hey Craig, appreciate the update. Thank
you, sir. Craig Trudell, thank you very
much. Craig alluded to it. Lisa said it
too. As we often say on this program,
the first move isn't always the right
move, but this is the first move. We're
down about 2% on that stock in the
pre-market. The headline from the
earnings story from General Motors just
moments ago. Tariffs on foreignade
vehicles and parts chopping $1.1 billion
from adjusted earnings
>> and probably going to increase over the
third quarter when some of the other
tariffs come into effect. mitigating it
though potentially by increasing prices
and other measures out there. Also
pointing to the fact that they do expect
electric vehicles to still be a
profitable and bright spot in their
sales despite the fact that we have seen
a pretty big policy shift on that front.
>> Equity futures more broadly doing okay.
We're down about a tenth of 1% on the
S&P with an update on stories worldwide
with your Bloomberg brief back with us.
Here's Yahara. Hey yra.
>> Hi John. We start with a recap of GM
earnings. GM shares are falling nearly
2.6% in the pre-market. company reported
second quarter profit that beat Wall
Street estimates but fell short of a
year ago. That's because, as you
mentioned, John, President Trump's
tariffs on foreignade vehicles and parts
chopped $1.1 billion from adjusted
earnings. Though, here's the bright
spot. GM maintained its fullear forecast
for earnings. Meanwhile, a new report
says President Trump's tax and spending
law will add $3.4 trillion to US
deficits over a decade. The latest
estimate from the Congressional Budget
Office also warns millions will lose
healthc care coverage. The analysis
doesn't factor dynamic effects like its
potential impact on growth or interest
rates. And shares of lint are falling in
Swiss trading, dropping by the most
since early 2022 after the chocolate
makers earnings missed estimates. Lint
also reported weaker than expected
volume growth and earnings as it faces
soaring cocoa prices. Shares had been up
35% year to date through Monday. That's
your Bloomberg Reef, John.
>> Not a fan. Yahara, thank you. Never have
been a fan.
>> This is my soft scented chocolate.
>> You like Ladrack?
>> I like Ladrack.
>> A bit more expensive. Yeah, exactly.
>> Just slightly more expensive, but for
special occasions, special occasions.
>> Okay. It's also go in store, they'll
give you some samples,
>> walk away, come back for more.
>> You guys are the worst. You go in there,
you're like, "Hey, we're back." And
they're like, "Oh, here they come
again." No, they love us going anywhere.
So they don't run their eyes. They give
us the free samples.
>> But look, but we are consistent
customers. That's why they give us the
free samples taste for free samples. No,
and we're paying
>> and we buy on special occasions.
>> A large cocoa component is good. Hyper
milk content tends to be a little bit
sweeter.
>> Well said. There we go. Up next on a
program struggling to find a floor for
the US dollar. If the dollar cannot pick
its head above its let's call it midjune
levels that for us suggests that at
least in in the moments the dollar is
still going to be a tailwind. The bias
toward the lower dollar is likely
intact.
>> That conversation up next with Sam Ze of
JP Morgan Private Bank from New York
City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Record highs on the S&P 500 and the
NASDAQ 100 coming into Tuesday. Pulling
back just a little bit this morning.
We're down a tenth of 1% on the S&P,
down by 2/10 on the Nasdaq. Under
surveillance this morning, struggling to
find a floor for the US dollar.
The fact that you still have the dollar
consolidating that suggests to us that
if the dollar cannot pick its head above
its let's call it midjune levels that's
that's a level that we have not seen
been able to surpass in about four or
five weeks of course that for us
suggests that at least in in the moment
the dollar is still going to be a
tailwind the bias towards the lower
dollar is likely intact
>> here's the latest this morning the
dollar facing a series of tests over the
next week or so including the July Fed
meeting and August 1st tariff deadline
line. Sam Zeie of JP Morgan writing,
"Despite signs of US economic
resilience, we expect further declines
in the dollar over the medium-term." Sam
joins us now for more. Sam, good
morning.
>> Good morning. How are you?
>> What are the pillars of this dollar
weakness view?
>> Yeah, there's really two main ones. One,
cyclical convergence. The US labor
market is still loosening. The Fed, we
can argue when it's going to happen, but
it's probably over the next couple of
meetings going to start resuming
interest rate cuts. and most of these
other major central banks, the ECB or
anywhere else have kind of finished a
lot of their cutting cycle. So we do
expect some cyclical convergence there,
some convergence between growth and
interest rates abroad. And then second
is a global asset reallocation story
that's continuing. So global investors,
we're not seeing any signs of
liquidation of US assets. You know,
there's hyperbole around. There's none
of that, but we're definitely seeing
incrementally less inflows into the US.
And when you set it against a backdrop
of a US with a very very large trade
deficit, a very large current account
deficit, it needs those inflows just to
offset the depreciation pressure on the
dollar. So the more that you just see
incrementally less inflows into the US,
we think the bias for the dollar is to
leak lower.
>> Let's address each point individually.
Two points. The first one, rate
convergence. The push back there would
be that Europe is facing a
disinflationary shock and maybe America
is facing an an inflationary shock and
the rates profile is going to be
different because of that. What's your
counterpoint to that?
>> My counterpoint to that is when you look
at real interest rates and inflation
adjusted interest rates, then as the Fed
starts to cut even in the face of a
slightly higher inflation environment,
which you know is probably warranted
given the labor market loosening, your
real interest rates decline and that's
the convergence that we're expecting.
Maybe not so much in nominal space, but
real and that's what's going to allow
the dollar to weaken.
>> To the second point, the push back would
be that you aren't seeing necessarily
outflows from the United States and
you're still seeing quite a bit of
allocation to US dollar denominated
assets. people are just hedging more
which is leading to a weakening in the
dollar but not necessarily any sort of
reallocation away from the US. What's
the counterpoint to that?
>> Well, you're right. I think I for the
dollar it doesn't really matter which
one it is, right? If you think about a a
global institutional investment fund,
let's say the first thing they're going
to do is raise those FX hedge ratios
which they've allowed to decline in
recent years and that puts selling
pressure on the dollar and then as the
assets that they own mature, they decide
to undergo an asset reallocation. That's
the next leg. And so yes, I do think
immediately what's been happening is an
increase in FX hedge ratios. The next
way that it continues is that asset
allocation story continues. Either way,
it results in a slightly weakening
pressure on the dollar.
>> How does the Fed independent story fit
in with the potential weakening of the
dollar further?
>> Yeah. I mean it's not a pillar of our
view but if you set it against a
backdrop where already investors are
demanding some more compensation to
finance the US fiscal deficit to finance
the current account deficit then this
just adds another risk to forcing
investors to demand more compensation to
that so doesn't really factor into our
direct baseline forecast but pushes
downside risk to the dollar outlook.
>> So at the moment do you think all this
criticism is just noise?
I think our view honestly has been it
doesn't really matter who the Fed chair
is. They're one vote among 12, but the
perception of the Fed's independence is
crucial to thinking about the right
value for the dollar or the value of
long-term Treasury yields.
>> So, in that respect, who they appoint to
be the next Fed chair for May when
Powell's term is up is important. in the
signal it sends over how political the
Fed might be. Honestly, what that
person's view is on monetary policy
probably doesn't actually matter all
that much. You need to convince the
entire committee to either lower or
increase interest rates.
>> How close do you think that committee is
right now to reducing interest rates?
>> Yeah. I think in the next couple
meetings it's going to make sense. I
think what's interesting about the
debate over Fed independence, again, I
won't like come in one way or the other,
is that if the call was 50/50,
>> then honestly, it's probably
incrementally slightly harder to cut
interest rates just because it's been
couched in such a political environment.
But I do think either way over the next
couple meetings, like we think that
there's 50 basis points of cuts this
year and probably 50 basis points next
year.
>> Does it concern you that your call is
very consensus and that there is a lot
of bearishness right now priced into the
market with positioning against the
dollar?
>> Yeah. on a medium-term, no, because
fine, maybe fast money players, hedge
funds, CTAs had gotten very short
dollars. Although, honestly, I would
argue over the last week or two that
some of that's been cleaned out. But the
medium-term story, the asset allocation
story, the increase in FX hedge ratios,
these are funds, these are players that
take a long time to make these
decisions. I know from speaking from our
clients at the private bank, they are
having more of this conversation than
we've probably ever had before. And
still it's a slowmoving process to move
from your current asset allocation to
another
>> could play out over years not just weeks
and months. Yeah,
>> that point to me was really salient.
This idea that we've seen the hedging
but that's the first step. The second
step is the allocation shift and that's
what I think a lot of people are very
dismissive of by saying look the numbers
don't show it right now so it's not
going to happen. Doesn't mean to say
that that actually won't happen down the
line.
>> Sam strong defense of your call.
Appreciate your time. Thank you. Thank
you very much Sam there of JP Morgan
Private Bank on the weak dollar call.
The bias is still for this Federal
Reserve to cut. What happens if that
bias isn't doubled down on in the next
few meetings? Then we're going to have a
very different situation down in
Washington DC
>> in terms of a more aggressive tone if
possible from the White House. I mean,
I'm not sure exactly how to extrapolate
that out, but it's not going to be
pretty.
>> Select a new Fed chair, maybe someone
already on the committee.
>> Yeah.
>> Get that shadow Fed chair activated.
>> Yeah. I mean, at a certain point, how
much has become a liability for the Fed
if they really don't get more done? Then
you start pricing in their views for 26
anyway regardless of what chairman Pal
is saying.
>> Lots of fun for the next couple
>> achieve the same thing.
>> Yeah, it's going to be fun.
>> Up next on the program, Victoria
Fernandez of Cross, Mark Sarabi of
Everor, Adam Poser of the Peterson
Institute and Russell Brownback of Black
Rockck.
>> The economy has proven quite resilient.
>> What we're really waiting for is this
pass through of inflationary impact.
inflation will be transitory.
>> I really don't know that we're at the
cusp of something dramatic happening to
this economy.
>> This economy is supposed to slow down
this quarter. We think it actually won't
be as sharp of slowdown.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. The second
hour of Bloomberg Surveillance starts
right now and your price action looks
like this. Equity futures on the S&P
coming off all-time highs down a tenth
of 1% off record highs on the NASDAQ 100
down by 2/10en of 1%. This week is all
about the earnings and a sprinkle of
economic data. Tomorrow numbers from
Alphabet and from Tesla this morning so
far from GM and from Coca-Cola.
>> Yeah, we just got Coca-Cola earnings
that also beat uh expectations.
Operating margin I thought was really
interesting. Came in almost 35% versus
the estimate of 33%. We can get into all
those numbers. To me, this sums it up.
James Quincy, CEO. Amid a shifting
external landscape in the second
quarter, the ability of our system to
stay both focused and flexible enabled
us to stay the course. This is what we
keep hearing from corporate America time
and time again.
>> Heard it from the banks, heard it from
the airlines, hearing it from Coca-Cola
this morning, from GM. The good news is
that it's better than estimated. The bad
news is it's worse than last year. And
it's worse than last year because of the
tariffs. The price is here. tariffs on
foreign made vehicles and parts chopped
to $1.1 billion from adjusted earnings.
>> They are eating that on their margins.
You are seeing their profits really get
cut by this. But going forward, this
means that they're going to be cutting
costs pretty much across the board. And
that I think is what everyone's going to
be looking at. How much does become the
norm going forward where there is
increasing corporate cost cutting and
are they going to have to raise prices?
Which is why the call is going to be so
interesting. What does the CEO say about
going forward? Especially as clearly
they are talking to this administration.
The 25% levy on auto still exists.
Although if you are USMCA compliant, how
much of that is being passed through?
Are they going to have to pay on some of
these products but not others? But Craig
Trudeell brought up a great point. A lot
of the parts as well come from South
Korea. They are not USMCA compliant. And
that potentially could be one of the um
more expensive expenditures they have.
>> Bring production home is the message
coming from the White House. And maybe
they will. Well, that's a story to
track. Not for this quarter, not for the
next year, but the next several years.
Big headline just crossing kind of from
Coca-Cola plans to launch an offering
made with guess what? US cane sugar.
This is what we expected to see from the
company. This is the headline that's
just dropped.
>> Well, we heard this from the president
over the past few days. He said uh last
week, President Trump said that
Coca-Cola had agreed to sweeten a
signature soda with cane sugar in the US
uh and not high fructose corn syrup. The
company came out and said, "We weren't
familiar with that. We haven't done that
yet. Now they are coming through with
this. This really puts a lot of pressure
on the sugar market. I'm very curious to
see uh the potential ramifications
there. I want to know if Trump forced
them into doing this today because he
came out with that statement or ready
already. Were there talks in the works?
Potentially a little bit of both. Um but
they plan to do it. They're going to
make it with cane sugar. This we have to
note is actually a win for the Maha
movement. Make America Healthy Again and
RFK Jr. We saw it as well with when it
comes to products from the ice cream
makers and cereals.
>> Stock is up in the pre-market by 0.8%.
Equity futures this morning lower by not
even a tenth of 1%. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Victoria Fernandez
of Crossmark following fresh all-time
highs. Sarah Bianke of Everore ahead of
President Trump's August 1st tariff
deadline and Russell Brownback of Black
Rockck seeing compelling opportunities
in fixed income. We begin this hour with
stocks trading near all-time highs.
Victoria Fernandark writing, "This
doesn't mean you should jump in with
both feet as valuations appear stretched
and sentiment is becoming extended."
Victoria joins us now for more.
Victoria, welcome to the show. Want to
get to some of your calls. Financials,
industrials, tech, three groups that you
quite like and we want to understand
what does that look like if the growth
inflation mix starts to sour in the
second half of this year.
>> Yeah. when we're looking at the market,
we obviously want to be in there and
taking advantage of movements in the
market, but what areas are going to be
where we want to put money to work if we
do have a more stagflationary
environment like you're talking about
and we know that there will probably be
a steeper yield curve and we've seen
loan growth actually start to increase a
lot of that because of the ramifications
of the reconciliation bill, right? If
you you have a boost to capex, a boost
to non-residential construction. So we
think financials can play well there.
tech just continues to take leadership
and that trend continues to be higher
and so we think that will probably
continue especially if AI is the area
where we're seeing a lot of that capex
be put to work and in industrials
especially those industrial metals kind
of ties in to that as well that
non-residential construction that capex
component um having that onshoring come
in those are all themes that we think
play out in those areas but it's not
just that there's themes for them Those
three areas are in solid uptrends and
they have solid balance sheets and so
those are things that are important to
us when we're looking where to invest.
>> Victoria, you said it the earnings might
hold up. How does the multiple hold up
in the face of a steepening yield curve?
>> Yeah, it's really tough right now. I
mean, we look at this multiple that
we're seeing and it is quite stretched.
I mean, we're 23 24 times um next
12-month earnings. That seems really
steep to us. earnings is what have
actually held this um current
environment up. It's what's allowed the
consumer to continue spending. So we are
concerned about earnings. You know,
we're scheduled to do what middle low
middle single digits here this quarter
on EPS growth. That's going to be the
lowest in about one and a half to two
years. If corporations can't hold those
margins up, y'all were just talking
about the margins from Coca-Cola. We saw
margins go down with GM. if they can't
hold those margins up, then I think you
start to see some of that flow through
to the consumer and you see that
weakening in the economy and I think the
cyclicals that are now outperforming
defensives that will start to rotate and
you'll have to shift.
>> So talking about Coca-Cola and we're not
going to ask you about cane sugar and
your preference between cane sugar.
>> I love Mexican Coke, Lisa.
>> I know. A lot of people seek out the
Mexican Coke because it has cane sugar
now. They have to do that no more
because it's going to be offered here in
the United States. KO actually said that
they did uh beat estimates in part
because consumers did absorb higher
prices and I wonder how much you're
starting to see this but instead of a
weakening in the economy actually the
strength of people absorbing it and
saying thank you can I have another
yeah I think a lot of it is just going
to depend what we see in the labor
market you guys know that I've thought
the labor market has been a little bit
weaker than what the numbers have been
showing there's these underlying cracks
in the labor market they're not widening
tremendously right now but those cracks
are there if the labor market weakens
more and I do think we're going to see
some of that coming in uh end of third
quarter, beginning of fourth quarter
because a lot of the government layoffs,
those severance packages run out in
September. We're going to see some more
weakening in the labor market when wages
start to really slow down. Then I think
you're going to see people go, "Wait a
minute. How secure is my job? Maybe I
start to pull back." Right now they're
not feeling that pressure, so they're
willing to spend more and pay more for
the things that are important to them. I
think we could see that change in the
fourth quarter.
>> Going forward, what are you looking for
to really understand whether there is
some sort of weakening in the economy?
And if there's not, is this sort of
feeling that the Fed is going to cut
rates in the near term sort of
counterintuitive
given the strength that we're seeing and
on the margins, some inflationary
pressures coming in a number of
consumer-facing companies? Yeah, the Fed
is really kind of um interesting right
now because you have such this wide
variety of views. I mean, you look at
Waller saying we need to cut in July,
right? You have Daly saying, "Oh, we're
okay for right now." You've got Cougler
saying, "No, we're good for, you know,
where we are for quite an extended
period of time." So, there's many
different views, and I'm not sure we can
actually pinpoint what the Fed is going
to do, even though it looks like
September might be the first rate cut
just, I think, to get ahead of some of
the weakness we could be seeing in the
fourth quarter. But, it really comes
down to those margins and the earnings.
If corporations continue to show that
and consumers are willing to pay a
little bit more, then it's going to hold
the economy up and I think we will be
able to have maybe 125 basis point cut
just so the Fed can say they're not
behind the curve that they're looking at
things and they want to help um you know
juice things up a little bit. But again,
it is counterintuitive. If we're doing
so well, why do we need to cut it all?
Are we really that far above neutral?
That's the question. So, you see the
Fed's waiting for margin and earnings,
but what about the tariff rates or have
you given up on policy in general? Lori
Calvacina was with us earlier in the
week and she talked about that they've
just removed their attempt to quantify
the policy backdrop for stocks this year
because it's so uncertain and it keeps
changing and it's very fluid. Yeah, it
is. I don't think you can, you know,
take your pen and put something into
your outlooks in regards to tariffs.
Well, the way that we're kind of looking
at is saying what are some offsets and
you know, is that going to be one for
one? We don't know. But offsets to some
of the effects of tariffs are going to
be some of the benefits from the
reconciliation bill that people think
will be coming um to fruition. I think
that's why the market keeps moving to
all-time highs. They're seeing some of
these benefits. They're seeing some of
the hard data look a little bit better.
weekly claims, industrial production,
retail sales, and they're thinking,
okay, there's enough benefit coming out
of the reconciliation bill, and better
hard data to offset what we're going to
see coming out of the tariffs. They're
kind of weighing that scale right now,
and they have them somewhat equal. If
one side starts to outweigh the other in
the near future, then I think we can see
the market shift.
>> When you say benefit of the one big
beautiful bill to certain parts of the
market, what industries are you thinking
of, Victoria? Yeah, I think it's going
to come back to kind of what we were
talking about in the beginning. You're
going to see industrials do better. I
think you will see financials do better
again because you'll see a steepening of
the yield curve. You're going to see
some of the elements that are in there
that will continue to do well for the
economy in regards to construction. So,
I think those are areas that you can
continue to see growth.
>> Victoria, stay there. Just stay close. I
just want to bring in these comments
from Muhammad Alerian who just posted
this out on social media. Reads as
follows. This morning, US government
criticism of both Federal Reserve Chair
Jal and the institution itself has
broadened to include mission creep and
the effectiveness of other officials.
The developments of the last few days
reinforce my view. If Chair Pal's
objective is to safeguard the Fed's
operational autonomy, which I deem
vital, then he should resign. This goes
to something that a number of academic
groups have really pointed to, which is
there have been signs, signals of
mission creep along the way. And right
now, this administration is highlighting
it in a highly political moment. But
this is something that a no growing
number of people really do believe has
been a problem. And part of the reason
why inflation was allowed to pick up as
much as it did. So there is legitimacy
and sort of pockets of questions in some
of what the administration is saying.
How it's being perceived by markets
though is an entirely political patina
given some of the other commentary.
>> Muhammad goes on to say as to the market
reaction most of the frequently
mentioned candidates to replace chairman
power would be able to calm any
potential market jitters. Victoria, can
I just ask you what would happen in your
mind if we did get the outcome that
Muhammad is suggesting?
Yeah, I'm not sure that it would
actually calm the markets that much. I
actually think it might give us um some
increased volatility and maybe actually
see yields move a little bit higher,
which I know is counterintuitive, but I
have to think that if you have someone
come in that's appointed by Trump,
people automatically think that they're
going to lower rates, but you're going
to have a Fed that is probably going to
be against them. the other members of
the FOMC are I don't think are going to
react well to having that happen and to
have Powell resign and he's going to
have the new person will have to have
the support of all those people to get a
rate cut done. So I actually think we
might see more volatility in the market
in the beginning um if Powell was to
resign.
>> Victoria Fernandez of Crossmark Victoria
thank you. Just to repeat what we just
heard from Muhammad Alerian if Chairman
Pal's objective is to safeguard the
Fed's operation autonomy which I deem
vital his view he should resign. What I
find interesting is that last point as
well to the market reaction about these
candidates that have been mentioned they
would be able to calm any potential
market jitters. Victoria says no, but we
have been talking about someone coming
into that job if Fed chair J. Powell was
fired. What Muhammad is saying is if he
resigns and then one of these people
come in, then you are still keeping that
Fed independence because Jay Powell
himself is taking himself out of the
equation instead of the president of the
United States. He also says, "I
recognize this isn't the consensus view
which favor favors him staying until the
end of his tenure in May. Nor is it the
first best which is simply not
attainable. Yet it's better than what is
playing out now, which I find
interesting. Growing and broadening
threats to Fed independence and will
undoubtedly increase should he remain in
office."
>> The idea of just take yourself out of
the equation. Let the central bank keep
on doing what it does. This actually
according to Deutsche Bank strategist
just to the point of what markets do
with any type of ouster or anything
that's perceived as an ouster. Uh
strategists Matthew Rascin and Steven
Zang yesterday said the potential ouster
of Fed chair Jay Powell would lead to a
30-year yield rising by at least half a
point. So by more than 50 basis points
in response to that at this point. Can
you get some sort of graceful exit stage
left? Even if it is ostensibly on your
own valition given some of the noise
that really has come around this
>> if you wanted a question to ask in the
news conference a week tomorrow quote
that and ask the question see what
chairman Pal's response would be.
>> I love it. The cheat sheet from John
Pharaoh if you want to, you know, know
what to ask.
>> Just throwing that out there. Dear
Michael McKe, if you want a question,
you know, I can just send Mike an email
later and see if he wants to ask.
>> I think that a lot of people would be
curious of the answer.
>> I'm sure Mike's got something better.
Equity futures right now in the S&P just
about unshamed on the S&P 500 very close
to record highs with an update on
stories worldwide. With your Bloomberg
brief, here's Yahihira. Hey yhara. Hi
John. We start with the latest from
Coca-Cola. It reported second quarter
sales growth that beat analyst estimates
as consumers continue to pay high prices
for its soft drinks. The company also
raised its fullear growth outlook and
co-confirmed that president what Trump
pres what President Trump said last week
which is it which is that it will launch
a new product made with cane sugar this
fall. Meanwhile, the Trump
administration says it's deploying more
immigration agents to New York after an
undocumented migrant allegedly shot a
federal officer. Homeland Security
Secretary Christy Gnome blames the
city's sanctuary policies for releasing
repeat offenders, while New York
officials say they follow state law and
are targeting dangerous individuals in
coordination with federal partners.
And Malcolm Jamal Warner, the actor who
rose to fame as a child star on the
Cosby Show, has died. Warner drowned
while on a family vacation in Costa
Rica. Authorities said in a statement
that Warner had apparently been swept
away by a current and that bystanders
tried to rescue him. Warner was just 54.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John,
>> tragic. Yhara, thank you. More from
Yhara in about 30 minutes time. Up next
on the program, 10 days and counting.
>> The August 1st deadline is just the
really the start date uh for when the
United States of America will begin
collecting this revenue from all of the
countries around the world who the
president has sent these letters to. You
could see some more letters before
August 1st. You could have some more
trade announcements as well.
>> We'll get the latest in the nation's
capital with Bloomberg Carter. She joins
us next live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Quite a run for equities for the stock
market state side and worldwide. Equity
futures this morning just a touch soft.
A week a lower down by not even a tenth
of 1% on the S&P. Earning season picks
up tomorrow afternoon. You'll hear from
Tesla. You'll hear from Alpha Bet. We
kick off earning season for the Max 7.
Max 7 names. Nine straight days of
gains, the longest winning streak of the
year so far. This equity market is doing
okay, even if it's driven by just a
handful of names in the bond market.
Let's talk about fixed income. 2-year,
10year, 30-year. Want to have two
different conversations here. What's
happening at the long end and then what
might happen at the front end. The long
end this morning, yields higher by a
basis point or two 43937.
Yields on 10-year bonds falling for four
consecutive days coming into today. The
focus on debt not just in America, but
worldwide. the UK making some news early
this morning.
>> Yeah, this is something that people are
watching as potentially you have
governments that are trying to plug the
gap at the same time that their growth
has been slowing down. We've seen the UK
face these issues. We've seen Europe on
the margins although they're not as
indebted and then you see Japan. This
has been really one of the themes. It's
a global bond market and we've seen that
in a massive way.
>> This death spiral that you find yourself
trapped in. Growth starts to go down.
Tax revenue falls and what do you end up
doing? You start talking about more tax
hikes. What happens? growth starts to go
down, tax revenue falls, what happens?
You start talking about more tax hikes.
That's a spiral you want to try and
escape. And it's a spiral that the UK
risk falling into.
>> And one of the things that a lot of
people have noted yourself including is
that this is the spiral of developing
nations, not of the developed world. And
do you start to see that type of dynamic
really affect uh the developed nations
world or is the UK somewhat different?
If the US finds itself in a situation
where growth is actually slowing
substantially, and it does face some
sort of reckoning on the fiscal space,
which it isn't yet, do you see a similar
type of reaction in the bond market? Not
yet. But the UK is a cautionary tone.
>> EM type dynamics taken a hold of DM.
Here's another example of that. The
pressure on Chairman Pal and the future
of central bank independence. This from
Muhammad Ali moments ago and on social
media. If Chairman Pal's objective is to
safeguard the Fed's operation autonomy,
which I deem vital, he should resign.
>> This is something that is counter
consensus as he pointed out and comes as
there is a whole bunch of noise around
some of the measures that the Federal
Reserve has taken. But Muhammad's point
here is well taken, which is at a
certain point the discussion, the noise
around taking out the Fed chair is
counterproductive to the goal of the
central bank and some of the other
potential nominees would do a pretty
good job. So why not just usher them in?
>> It's going to be a busy two weeks for
the Federal Reserve and for the trade
story as well under surveillance this
morning. 10 days and counting.
>> The trade team and the president himself
continue to be very engaged with
countries around the world when it comes
to our trade agreements. The August 1
deadline is just the really the start
date uh for when the United States of
America will begin collecting this
revenue from all of the countries around
the world who the president has sent
these letters to. You could see some
more letters before August 1st. You
could have some more trade announcements
as well.
>> Here's the latest this morning.
Countries lining up to strike trade
deals ahead of President Donald Trump's
August 1st deadline. Commerce Secretary
Howard Lnik meeting with Japan's chief
trade negotiator Monday evening in
Washington. Bloomberg Kelly joins us now
for more. Okay, help us work through
this issue. Amarie was talking about it
earlier on the program. You've got one
official in the White House, part of the
cabinet turning around and saying,
"Don't worry too much about these trade
deadlines. What matters here is a good
deal, not a bad deal done quickly." We
hear from another official that says,
"It's a really important deadline. We're
going to get lots done." And then
another official saying, "You might see
letters sent out before that deadline."
Which one is it?
>> Well, right now, August 1st is the
deadline in which they're saying that
they're going to begin to collect tariff
revenues. But as they've said many times
in the past, they're still open to
negotiating beyond August 1st. So even
if those tariffs go into effect, they're
saying countries can still keep calling
the phone and ringing President Trump.
But something that you mentioned there
was those meetings yesterday with Japan.
That was the eighth round of trade
negotiations for Japan. And Japan is one
of several countries who have been
negotiating with the administration for
months and yet still saw a letter from
President Trump simply setting their
tariff rate. It was about 25% that
President Trump has set it out. That's
up only 1% from April. And a lot of
countries are starting to digest that
the White House and the president
himself has not changed his mind when it
comes to the level of tariffs that
they're going to see. It's not much
different from April despite the fact
that we've seen this pause. But some of
the countries that I'm watching still,
India is a is a country that the White
House and the administration continues
to say that we're expecting to seal a
trade deal sometime soon. The EU was
also pushing for a deal this week and
preparing for a possible no deal
situation where they could potentially
retaliate. But as we saw with China,
which did retaliate very early on in
this trade war, saw their tariffs exceed
up to 100%. And so there is huge risk
for the EU there. And China is another
country that is expected to negotiate
beyond that August 1 deadline because
they have their own separate trade
agreement. Secretary Tre of the Treasury
Scott Besson is someone who is expected
to meet with Beijing sometime early next
month. Again, he told us, "Don't worry
about that China deadline on August
12th." Kayla, we do have the president
of the Philippines sitting down with
President Trump today. Caroline Levit
alluded to trade is going to come up in
the conversation, but the Philippines
thinks potentially they could secure a
deal. What are you expecting out of this
meeting today?
Well, the president has been saying that
he believes the tariff rate that the
president has floated at 20% is very
severe. He is one of many countries that
wants to see that lowered, but really
his challenge today is to simply get
through this Oval Office meeting. We've
seen time after time foreign leaders
come to the White House and have these
confrontations with President Trump. So,
a lot of leaders simply come in wanting
to leave that meeting unscathed. And I'm
sure that's the same goal that President
Marcos has today at the White House. AA
Garner with the latest down in
Washington DC. Aa thank you. The trade
deadline fast approaching. We're still
trying to figure out who's paying for
the tariffs. Andrew Honhorse of City
with this to say. Tariff costs will be
absorbed by either foreign exporters,
domestic firms, or consumers. A modest
increase in consumer prices suggests
that so far the cost is being absorbed
by firms and not consumers.
>> In other words, this isn't going to be
inflationary, at least longer term. He
said corporate earnings could hold some
clues and on the margins we're seeing
some companies absorb it in their bottom
line. We're seeing that with GM. You're
seeing others marginally increases
prices. We're seeing that with
Coca-Cola. But either way, the sort of
broad-based nature of who absorbs them
is leading to Andrew Hollenhorse team
who has been arguing the Fed to cut
rates because inflationary pressures are
not the pre-minent concern.
>> He's going to join us at 8:30 Eastern
time. And as you said earlier this
morning, repeatedly I think maybe GM
numbers this morning speak to this kind
of theme. Well, the idea that GM did not
pass law price increases yet. We'll find
out exactly what they do. But they are
planning cost cuts and that raises a
question of weakness in the back of this
rather than some sort of inflationary
push. I'm just struck by how each sector
is completely different. Coca-Cola able
to raise prices because it's just a can
of Coke, but for a whole car, it's kind
of a different story. And I think that
you're seeing it in these pockets that
aren't necessarily a consistent story.
>> Can of Coke with cane sugar.
>> I know.
>> Just around the corner. There we go.
>> Get excited. Is that make America
healthy again? Is that healthy? It's
healthier than the
>> return of traditional American.
>> Hold on a second. You would not have a
can of sugar.
>> I will have a can of sugar.
>> He said he's going to try that
>> on a special occasion.
>> Or is that the cane sugar?
>> But not but not a can of
>> Do you know what's not healthy? Diet
Coke. And that's what the president
drinks.
>> You tell him. Up next, Adam Posen of the
Peterson Institute with the pressure
building on Fetch J Power.
[Music]
Futures negative, down a tenth of 1% on
the S&P, down by close to 210 of 1% on
the Nasdaq 100. Mentioned this stat
earlier on in the program comes from
Alex Sover of Bloomberg News. 18
sessions now without a move of 1% or
move in either direction. The longest
such streak of the year so far. Things
are a lot quieter. You can measure it in
various ways, but things are a lot
quieter in this market than they were a
few months back. It just shows that the
more volatile the headlines sometimes
the more people just get this sort of
numbness because what you saw in the
first Trump term was actually volatility
went really low and you're some seeing
something similar in effect. Yes, maybe
because things have quieted out but also
because how do you make bold moves when
you don't understand what the parameters
are?
>> Then it blew up in 2018. Well, that's
true. Fun and games. Fun and games.
Equity futures right now in the S&P then
negative by not even a tenth of 1%. Very
close to alltime highs. Your morning
movers are lined up with Danny Burger.
Hey Danny. Hey John, definitely seeing
some move when it comes to individual
companies off the back of earnings
reports we heard from GM in the last
hour. We have the figure for the tariff
hit. It is $1.1 billion. Beyond that
though, they saw things like EV sales
doubling. They also maintained their
fullear outlook. And to be clear from
GM, we had already learned from them
that they estimated that their fullear
tariff impact would be something like $5
billion, but just shows this market's
willingness to punish companies that are
outlining what the tariff impact will
be. We also heard from Coca-Cola a very
muted reaction from them. Initially
shares were higher when they reported,
but they've just ever so slightly
started to sink down. They did beat on
multiple fronts. They also were able to
maintain and beat on margin showing that
they're able to pass through cost
increases to their customers. They also
announced a new launch of per the
president's request, a Coca-Cola that
has cane sugar. But again, we talked
about the bar being low for earnings
season. Even a company that beats still
isn't rallying off the back of it.
Though I will say one company that is
rallying off the back of their earnings
is Northrup Gumman. We're getting a lot
of the defense companies reporting
today. Those shares are higher by 3% a
beat and a raise. Specifically, the
president's 2026 budget request appears
that it will have a lot beneficial to
Northrup Gum. Their missiles RBC noting
that their B-21 program seems like it
will have a double of funding. And just
a reminder, this company's B2 bombers
were used in the recent Iranian
campaign. So, a lot of demand there with
geopolitical tensions. John.
>> Hey Danny, thank you. appreciate the
update on our radar this morning. Let's
get back to GM. Second quarter profit
taking a hit due to the president's
tariffs. Levies on foreignade vehicles
and parts chopping $1.1 billion from
adjusted earnings and
>> potentially that could increase in the
third quarter because the ramifications
haven't been fully felt or weren't fully
felt in the second quarter. Some key
questions for the earnings call that I
think we have to ask. How much is uh
consumer demand going down just from the
broader economic picture? Two, electric
vehicle sales and how much that's going
down as a result of policy change. But
number three, are they going to raise
prices? Are they going to cut costs? Are
they going to cut jobs? How much are
they going to bring back to the United
States? This is going to be really at
the epicenter of so many of trade
discussions just simply because the auto
manufacturers have been consistently at
the center. And that supply chain when
it comes to the auto sector is globally
so intricate, so integrated when it
comes to where they're sourcing parts,
whether it's South Korea, Canada,
Mexico. And this story is not going to
end for them. Over the weekend, the
commerce secretary, Howard Lutnik, was
asked about what's going on with trade
between Mexico and Canada. And he said,
"Of course, we're going to renegotiate
USMCA." Remember, USMCA was from Trump
won when he wanted to renegotiate NAFTA.
And he says, "Of course, we're going to
try to get more concessions." So for the
auto players, this is going to be a
story not just for the rest of 2025, but
definitely well into 2026 and probably
2027.
>> This is going to hang over the industry
for quite a while. To Emy's point, we
had a front loading of purchases going
into the tariffs on specific goods,
specific items across specific
industries. The auto industry was very
much one of those industries.
>> And so at this point, I wonder how long
they can hold off before they raise
prices. Remember, Ford said that they
were going to hold off on raising prices
for a while and then they went ahead,
they were the leaders when it came to
raising prices. is very curious to see
how much that crimp demand and what we
hear from them.
>> GM is down in the pre-market by about
3.4% on the trade front. White House
press secretary Caroline Levit saying
the US remains engaged in talks, adding
that the Trump administration could
announce more deals or send more tariff
letters before the August 1st deadline.
>> So what's changed? This has been the
whole story the entire time. We're going
to send the letters when we decide. We
saw a drip of them immediately weeks
ago. Then they stopped. Then we said
we're supposed to get a bunch by or
before August 1st. And then the Treasury
Secretary coming home from Japan, I
can't get over this. A good deal is more
important than a rush deal. Basically
saying, we will give you more time. And
what did he say to all of us? Market,
ignore that August 12th deadline when it
comes to China. So deadlines almost
don't really mean anything anymore. What
is important though, are you going to
have the customs computers adjusted by
August 1st? So whatever tariff rate is
currently on the books right now, the US
will start to enforce
>> self-imposed deadlines. We should keep
referring to them as self-imposed
deadlines. They can be changed at any
time.
>> Letters. I mean, honestly, you're going
to get a letter. It sounds like, you
know, again, like a threat. If you don't
quit it, you're going to get a letter.
>> That's exactly what it is.
>> I know, but it sort of feels a little
bit like what kind of teeth are there.
>> Thank you for your attention to this
matter.
>> There we go. That's the latest on Trade.
City asking its first year analyst to
disclose whether they've already
accepted a job from another company.
Goldman making a similar move earlier
this month as banks look to clamp down
on recruitment by private equity firms.
a long long list of banks is starting to
build.
>> Yeah. Although Goldman Sachs learned the
hard way that on one hand you can't just
say, you know, please don't take
anything. You've got to pledge your
loyalty. On the other hand, how do you
offer jobs that they actually want and
that can compete with private equity?
And the key question is how much are
private equity companies still going to
look to poach the best from some of the
training programs of the big banks? they
have to do the work and then private
equity uh reaps the benefits because
it's a more desirable job versus
people who want to stay.
>> The problem I have with this story is
okay, so they're asking you to disclose
if you got a new job. Just don't do it.
Be bold. What's the worst they're going
to do? Fire you? Because then guess
what? You have a new job waiting for
you.
>> Get them to sign a contract in a
non-compete and give them favorable
terms.
>> Yeah. Well, that's exactly
>> to secure them. I mean, isn't that the
way this should work?
>> Why not do the sweetener rather than the
stick?
>> Precisely. At the same time, I think
that to your point, if somebody did
that, it looks pretty bad. I mean, you
get black ball in the industry if you
promise to do that. So, I imagine that
there is a reputational risk to not act
that way. That said, there could be a
better
I'm just saying
>> city, the latest bank pushing in that
direction.
>> My kids are listening. Don't do that.
>> That's advice for your kids.
>> Well, I just I don't want them to do
that. That's that's you know,
>> center tensions between the Federal
Reserve and the White House, not just
Kazabrammo. Treasury Secretary Besson
pushing for a review of the Federal
Reserve posting on ex quote significant
mission creep and institutional growth
have taken the Fed into areas that
potentially jeopardize the independence
of its core monetary policy mission.
Adam Poston of the Peters Institute
joins us now. Adam and welcome to the
program. I'd love your reaction not just
to that but also to this some comments
from our mutual friend Muhammad Alerin a
little bit earlier this morning who said
this. The developments of the last few
days reinforce my view that if Chairp's
objective is to safeguard the Fed's
operational autonomy, which I deem
vital, then he should resign. What's
your reaction to that, sir? Those
comments are not well taken, John.
Basically what Muhammad would
incentivize and what others sell the
same line would incentivize is anytime
the president wanted to get rid of a Fed
chair, wanted to affect a Fed chair,
they would just throw up an enormous
amount of noise and pressure and then
that becomes its own justification.
Well, they've lost the president's
support. The whole point is that you
need to be able to operate as chair of
the Fed and the Fed FOMC needs to
operate while not being able to ignore
the politics. So if you look at you just
saw I'm sure the op-ed by Bernani and
Yellen talking about this in more
general abstract terms but think about
Paul Vulkar doing the necessary
disinflation in 1985.
Well imagine you go back and look at
what the Congress and the president were
saying about him then and imagine then
Muhammad or somebody stood up and said
well clearly it's imperiling the
institutional strength of the Fed if
they continued to do this despite
everyone's objections. The other point I
would make is that everything that's
been said about the Fed so far about
mistakes and now getting into mission
creep, which is a more serious issue,
isn't about Fed independence.
It is about getting a proper mandate and
having proper hearings from Congress,
not from the executive branch about what
the Fed should include. And the
hierarchy of goals for the Fed is very
clear. stable prices and full employment
above all else, financial stability.
So, this is all just a bunch of game
playing. I've heard people saying in
that Bessent and others in private say
they're just working the referee and the
referee can't fight back. Well, that's
no way to think about the most important
economic policy decisions in the
country.
>> So, now there's a question, Adam, of how
much the central bank should be
considering the tariff ramifications and
how inflationary this is going to be. On
one hand, you see an increasing number
of corporate earnings that show them
really absorbing a number of the tariff
impacts on their bottom line. And then
you have uh Scott Bessant just coming
out speaking moments ago to media saying
that tariffs are bringing manufacturing
back to the United States and we did
hear something akin to that from General
Motors. What's your take on what the
first read is on how tariffs are being
sort of uh borne through the economy?
Well, as um you were just having
reported, the fact is, Lisa, that three
things are going on. First, companies
are burning through inventories. That's
notably true in the auto industry. And
waiting to put up prices until they
burnt through the inventories of the
inputs and the final goods they
frontloaded.
Second, so the we're now seeing a lot of
Beigebook type documented anecdotes of
companies getting ready to increase
prices. Second, because of the kind of
political climate we're in, and this was
mentioned by Danny Burgerer, I think in
your reporting that the you don't want
to be the target. You don't want to be
the one to visibly raise prices. The
market reacts unless everybody else
does, but eventually you have to. So,
what you end up doing is spreading the
price increase across non-tariff goods
as well. The third point is the
manufacturing one. As Robert Lawrence of
the Peterson Institute has published
repeatedly, you can get a little bit of
gain in manufacturing, but it's just
completely cost competitive and
uncompetitive to bring back all kinds of
things here. And so if you start doing
putting up huge amounts of barriers,
eventually yes, you can create more cars
for the US market, but this will be at
the expense of the consumer and the
expense of the taxpayer. So, and in the
end, you will not fundamentally change
the US economy. Adam,
>> so sorry. So, the last Go ahead. Sorry.
I was going to say I know that you're uh
you've been pretty uh against any kind
of tariff and you're ve very much for
free trade and I just wonder if you've
been surprised by how benign some of the
ramifications have been so far or is
this always how it is at the beginning
because of what you just said because of
the bring forward and some of the other
sort of uh more immediate adjustments
that can't happen over the longer term.
>> It's a good question Lisa. I don't think
I know what always happens because
multiplying your tariffs by 10 or 20fold
in an advanced economy has not happened
in a 100 years. So I can't tell you that
this is the precedent. I can tell you
that this is certainly within the range
of where I would have expected lagged
effects to take place. Um that so it's
not surprising we haven't had huge
inflation yet. And as Secretary Ben has
rightly said, the issue is going to be
once we get the jump in price level due
to tariffs, does that transmit into
second round inflation effects? And
that's what the Fed has to call. So I
think the big surprise more is the
amount of deportations, disruption to
migrant workers, disruption to immigrant
workers, even with documentation hasn't
had as big an effect on the economy as I
expected. That's my surprise. But the
tariff stuff is seems to be about where
it should be so far.
>> Adam, Governor Waller is already saying
that he doesn't see a inflationary
spiral when it comes to tariffs and it's
going to be only a one price hike
adjustment and potentially he is going
to dissent at the Fed meeting. Are you
expecting some potential dialogue debate
at this FOMC meeting? I think Governor
Waller sincerely believes what he's
saying and more than that he he has a
legitimate argument. If I was in the
room, I would be debating the other
side. But I think that is a legitimate
thing for the FOMC to be debating
independent of political pressure and
name calling Emory. Um, and that's
that's the where the focus should be
against what Chris is arguing. And I
think Chris got a bunch of things right
over the last few years that other
people got wrong. So people should take
its views seriously, but I think he's
underestimating how much inflation
expectations have been deankered by the
last few years. I think he's
underestimating how much the problems in
the labor market and the tightness in
the labor market is likely to give rise
to second round effects. I think he's
underestimating how much the fiscal
policy in the end will be stimulative.
And I think he's underestimating how
much shortages in particular industries
will be very visible and salient for
people the way eggs were or a few other
things were under Biden. And so that the
deanchoring effects of the inflation
we're about to see or the price level
jump first round as you rightly put it
about to see are going to be bigger. But
this is the debate that independent
federal open market committee should be
having.
>> This might have been shorter if we just
asked you what he got right Adam but
we'll leave it there. Adam Posen of the
Peterson Institute. Adam, appreciate
your time. As always, a long list of
things that Adam believes Governor
Waller is underestimating.
>> Yeah, and that's one reason why a number
of other members disagree. This is an
active economic debate. I think it's
important to keep reiterating this,
which is one reason why a number of
people, including Chris Waller, would
like to see that active debate on the
Federal Reserve when they meet next
week.
>> It's a credible argument. Let's put it
that way. You can debate it, disagree,
but it's a credible argument with the
right intent. Equity futures right now
in the S&P negative by not even a tenth
of 1%. Let's give an update on stories
elsewhere with your news worldwide in
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahira. Hey
Yhierra.
>> Hi John. Trade negotiations are
continuing ahead of President Trump's
August 1st deadline. Press Secretary
Caroline Levit told reporters more
countries could receive tariff letters
before then. Trump is set to meet with
pres the president of the Philippines
Ferdinand Marcos Jr. today at the White
House. Meanwhile, the White House said
it would remove the Wall Street Journal
from a small group of reporters
traveling with President Trump on his
trip to Scotland. This coming after the
paper published a story alleging the
president once sent a suggestive
birthday letter to the late disgraced
financier Jeffrey Epstein. Trump is
suing the paper over the report. And
Victoria Beckham is set to start in her
own Netflix show this fall. This follows
the success of her husband David
Beckham's documentary in which she
emerged as an accidental star. Her show
will follow the former Spice Girls
day-to-day as the creative director of
her own fashion and beauty brands and
she told Bloomberg nothing will be
sugarcoated. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John,
>> the news you need. Yara, thank you.
Appreciate it. More from Yahara in the
next hour. Here's some news you might
need. the Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson with a new date to meet the
Chinese
>> says he's going to meet his Chinese
counterpart in Stockholm Monday and
Tuesday. So this obviously becomes comes
before that August 12th deadline. He
told us just last week it'll be
happening in a few weeks and finally
have a date. What are they going to
discuss because they seem to be able to
get get over the hump of rare earths and
what's going on with export controls.
What is next in this relationship?
>> Another round of talks between the US
and China scheduled for next week. Up
next on the program, the big bid for
bonds. There's constant demand for
government bonds. There's constant
demand for the bond market out there.
Every time I meet with investors,
they're trying to figure out where to
get into the bond market, how to get
into the bond market.
>> That conversation up next with Russell
Brownback of Black Rockck from New York.
You're watching Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
This headline just dropped in moments
ago from the Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson. Another round of talks between
the United States and China meeting
Chinese counterparts in Stockholm across
Monday and Tuesday. That headline
crossing just a moments ago. The price
action looks like this this morning. If
you are just joining us, welcome. Equity
futures totally unchanged on the S&P
500. on the NASDAQ down by not even a
tenth of 1%. That's the equity market
under Savannah this morning. The big bid
for bonds.
>> I don't see 10-year yields at 5%. I
think they belong at 5%. And that's the
great puzzle that they're not there.
That's telling us that there's constant
demand for government bonds. There's
constant demand for the bond market out
there. Every time I meet with investors,
they're trying to figure out where to
get into the bond market, how to get
into the bond market.
>> Here's the latest this morning. US
10-year Treasury yields rising, or
rather falling for a fourth day through
yesterday as President Trump's tariff
deadline adds to demand for haven
assets. Russell Branback of Black Rockck
calling this quote one of the most
compelling fixed income opportunities
set in decades. Russell joins us now for
more. Russell, good morning, sir.
>> Morning.
>> We've seen a bit of a rally in
treasuries over the previous few days.
what's behind that big wall of demand?
>> So, you know that we calling it one of
several transcendent influences today
that really sort of drive market
outcomes and that is this wall of money
uh that exists today. So, you look in
the United States, $218 trillion of
private sector net worth and you put
that in comparison to the size of the
asset markets today, it really is a
world where there's too much money and
not enough yielding assets. And so
that's a uh you know a a transcend
influence in the face of lots of policy
uncertainty that along with a resilient
economy.
>> Everything seems to have settled down
over the past few months. There's
something you and the team have said
that genuine economic risk is muted.
What do you mean by that? Uh it's this
series of uh structural foundational
influences that have transcended uh
uncertainties that the economy has faced
in 2023 with the regional banking
crisis, an acrimonious election last
year and you know the uncertainty about
the sequencing of policies uh and
implementation this year. And yet you
get these momentary pullbacks of
consumption or investment just as
velocity slows as uncertainty sort of
cycles through the system. But then it
rebounds and you've seen the economy
accelerate into the fourth quarter each
of the last two years. Uh it's my
expectation you'll see the exact same
thing unfold this year
>> which is a reason why you've been
reducing your position in cash and
deploying still seeing spread
compression through the remainder of the
year. I just wonder if the book's really
been written on the policies that have
been implemented and the policy
uncertainty and the ramification on the
economy. Why do you think that we have
enough information to say we will still
see that reaceleration even if some of
those tariff ramifications haven't been
fully felt yet?
>> So again, because these uh underlying
influences are so powerful, these policy
uh evolutions are only marginally
incrementally uh determinant to
outcomes. And you know, listen, I think
markets have correctly assessed uh the
tariff situation uh as benign at the end
of the day. At the end of the day,
tariffs are a a tax uh and so the debate
about whether they're inflationary. You
think about if we were sitting here
talking about an income tax, uh we
wouldn't be discussing whether it's
inflationary or not. We'd be discussing
its impacts uh on growth. Um and so uh
when you think about and many guests
have been on your program over recent
days talking about how that tariff
impact is spread out over so many
different nodes of that value chain
between the point at which the good
arrives at port and when it ends up on
the on the store shelf. So these are
marginal sort of shifts uh in underlying
uh uh economic actors and the influences
there. But overall these foundational
supports are what's driving markets
>> and that's driving credit that's driving
equities. How should this really play
through in the bond in the uh Treasury
space given the fact that we have
potential rate cuts coming down the pike
even with strength in the economy and a
real question around how much it's going
to be an inflationary push over the next
6 months.
>> Yeah. So I think the bond market has
found an equilibrium uh all throughout
this year. It's twist steepened uh in
deference to slowing growth and
inflation that's still above target uh
and a Fed that will likely deliver uh a
couple of rate cuts by the end of the
year. The front end of the curve is
anchored to Fed policy. The back end is
anchored to nominal growth. And if you
think about a four and a half, 5%
nominal uh growth outcome this year.
That's exactly where the bond market is
today. We see this fixed income regime
as one where there isn't a big interest
rate bet to make. It's about clipping
that coupon. It's about the income uh
associated uh with the fixed income
opportunity.
>> Is that another way of saying this Fed
conversation is not that relevant?
So, you know, listen, I I actually think
the debate that uh is taking place today
is a healthy one where there's credible
arguments on both side. Don't cut or
cut. I happen to be in the camp that
says the setting of policy today is
suboptimal. You think about the K-shaped
evolution of the economy today. I don't
call it a K-shaped recovery because I
don't think the US economy is actually
cyclical. But the current policy setting
today, think about the savers, uh, which
is really the purview of the wealthy uh,
and higher income cohorts today. $150
billion a month of interest income
acrruing to those uh, uh, economic
actors, lowincome, lowwealth cohort
households. That's where all the
floating rate debt is today. Your credit
card debt, your auto debt. And so the
policy uh, stance today is
simultaneously helping the savers and
hurting uh, those lower income cohorts.
So an adjustment downward I would argue
might be a bit more optimal
>> on aggregate a net benefit or net
negative. It sounds like a net negative
>> to to keep
>> to keep rates where they are.
>> Um listen the economy again these
transcendent influences the policy
setting today is not going to dent the
the trajectory of the economy. It's
being influenced uh at the margin by
velocity which slowed earlier in the
year and is set to uh become unleashed
in the back half. I think it would be
more optimal if the rate came down a
little bit and met where the market's
pricing cuts today.
>> Russell, appreciate your time. Thank
you, sir. Russell Brownback there of
Black Rockck on the credible arguments
on either side over the FOMC.
>> What he just said there about the
structure of wealth in this country, I
thought was fascinating. The idea that
savers are benefiting from rates staying
high and that's at the detriment of
people who have to borrow these floating
rate instruments to do things like buy
cars and cover their credit card bills.
That's a really important argument.
>> Story of the last three years. Yeah,
exactly.
>> It's a problem. It's a big problem. Up
next on the program, Alexman of
Barclays, Niship Maldani of S&P Global,
Andrew Onhorse of City and Space
Foundation CEO, Heather Pringle from New
York. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
The quality of the S&Ps actually
improved the valuation. Yes, it's high,
but it's justified in our minds.
>> Businesses are still in a really, really
good spot.
>> Corporate America has a lot more
difficult decisions to make this
quarter.
>> It's not all easy. I think this is going
to be somewhat messy in this reporting
season. This is Bloomberg Surveillance
with Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz,
and An Marie Hordern.
>> That all sounds dreadful. Stocks are at
all-time highs. Live from New York City
this morning. Good morning. Good
morning. The third hour of Bloomberg
Savannah starts right now with equity
futures just about positive on the S&P
500. On the NASDAQ, the focus on
tomorrow afternoon. Looking ahead to
numbers from Alphabet and from Tesla. In
the bond market, yields have been
falling coming into Tuesday. This
morning, totally unchanged. The 10-year
at 438. If Muhammad Alerian gets what he
wants, this market won't be unchanged.
He's looking for the chairman of the
Federal Reserve to resign. if it can
quiet some of the noise around the
independence of the Federal Reserve. He
came out and posted on a he's not in the
consensus. Let's just put it that way.
Adam Posen said that he just was a hard
pass that argument. There is this
question though about what it will do if
you do get some sort of change of
changing of the guard if the person who
is put in that seat is credible if they
have some sort of legitimacy in uh
economic circles.
>> It's a polarizing take from Dr. Alarium
this morning. That's for sure. But if
one party's happy, it's the White House,
isn't it? That's what they're pushing
for.
>> Absolutely. Because this is out of
consensus with what a lot of individuals
are saying. And basically Muhammad Arony
is lining up behind their argument. But
he is saying that if Jay Powell himself
cares so much about the autonomy and the
independence of the Fed, then take
yourself out of this equation. Of
course, the next question comes who then
do you put into that chair? And I think
what Muhammad is saying in this tweet is
actually he thinks markets will be fine,
but he will be markets will be fine
because the move before will be J. Pal
resigning, not being fired. So this is
about institutional credibility on the
institution itself. They meet next week
and they conclude that meeting a week
tomorrow. Andrew Honhorse of city joined
us a little bit later on this program.
He's pushing the idea that don't worry
about tariffs rather like what Governor
Wallace said to us on this program just
last week. The pastry to the consumer
isn't as strong or as powerful as many
people feared.
>> And that's what we saw in GM. That's
what we saw in a number of different
companies who have absorbed some of the
uh margin compression that the president
has called for. or we see Coca-Cola
raising prices, but you know, some of
the smaller lower uh lower price goods,
you're seeing some bigger price
increases just because they can do that.
If you kick it up 2 cents, it's not
going to make a big difference. I will
just say this is a common argument. Even
Mary Dailyaly on the Fed Reserve Board
talking about the idea or San Francisco
Fed president talking about how she is
coming around to the idea that this is
going to be a one-time price shock. I
keep thinking about what Russell
Brownback said, though. I do want to
come back to the argument of just sort
of who it affects if they lower interest
rates. Also, if the Fed is concerned
about where the tariff levels are going
to be, the Treasury Secretary saying
this morning, August 1st is quote pretty
hard deadline for all countries. I think
what he's saying there is he doesn't
mean you can't negotiate after tariffs
go up, but they are trying to deliver on
all these fronts by August 1st. And in
that case, will the Fed have enough
information when they meet in September?
>> This is what the Treasury Secretary's
got to say. future of the Fed chairman.
No reason for Pal to step down right now
>> because ultimately they're going to go
through this process. What benefit does
it do for them? Honestly, they don't
want to role the market. They want to
scapegoat. They want to have this
discussion at a certain point. What are
they going for? Why are they increasing
the pressure if they're not going to
have him step down and they're not going
to fire him? Again, we keep asking that
question. I'm not sure the answer.
>> Looking forward to the live blog from
the White House next Wednesday during
the news conference with Chairman Pal.
All of that's a week away. Right now,
equity futures doing okay. just about
positive on the S&P 500. Coming up this
hour, we'll catch up with Alex Alman of
Barclays following another all-time
high. Nishek Madlani of S&P Global
reacting to GM earnings and Andrew
Honhorse of City on his call for a
September rate cut. We begin this hour
with stocks hovering near record highs.
Alex Alman of Barclay's writing,
ultimately it remains all eyes on that
confluence of the FOMC, PCE, NFP, mega
cap earnings window with a sprinkle of
tariff threats or relief. Alex joins us
now for more. Good morning, Alex.
>> Good morning.
>> How are we priced for all of that?
>> Well, the S&P is pricing in about a 1%
move every day over that three-day
window. But what's really interesting is
that we've obviously had a a long streak
of really very little volatility. The
market's pricing in a 3-day window of
volatility, and then it's pricing in no
volatility again. So, I would say
there's still a relatively high amount
of complacency even over those uh that
3-day window of of uh of threeletter
acronyms.
>> Tariff threats or tariff relief. the
difference between the two. What is the
difference between the two? Is this a
market, do you feel, that's betting
against the administration following
through or betting on corporate
resilience in the face of tariffs?
>> I would say the latter. It's it's quite
clear. I mean, the S&P is trading on
basically at its cap of what it's been
trading from a valuation perspective in
a postcoid era, which is about 22 22 1/2
times. And so if we break out of that,
we're starting to question if we're
getting into a new regime of valuation
and of call, dare I say, bubble, which
is clearly going to be moving towards
tariff relief than tariff fear.
>> Well, but Chris Harvey had an
interesting argument about this. You use
the word bubble, but he made the
argument that we should be getting to
higher uh valuation levels given the
fact that this is a much more tech
dominant uh index than it has been
traditionally. and we have had this huge
industrial revolution underpinning some
of the efficiency gains that have
allowed companies to absorb some of the
tariff costs etc with relative grace.
What do you make of that that there
needs to be just generally a higher
valuation a higher multiple put on US
equities as a result?
>> I think that's generally been the path
over time. If you look at the path of
the equity market multiple post GFC as
profit margins have increased you've
generally seen an improvement in um in
valuations. I would like to pivot
slightly and just talk about small caps
a little bit because if we're talking to
talk about a technological revolution
and we need to start thinking outside
the box a bit beyond just the
hyperscalers and the immediate picks and
shovels beneficiaries of AI. Let's talk
about the fact that consumers get a huge
benefit from AI at basically a
subsidized cost as a result of these
hyperscalers investing quite frankly
trillions of dollars into this
investment at what is currently a low
ROI. Think about the consumer benefit.
Think about the small business benefit
businesses that now you're democratizing
the process of that AI revolution into
let's call it small caps and that's why
I actually think the valuation anomaly
might actually be in the smaller cap
space which basically has been
overlooked for years now.
>> So this is the argument that people were
making last year that didn't really come
to pass that we'd see a broadening out
away from the hyperscalers and the big
tech names to the rest of the index
because you are seeing that diffusion of
some of the tech prowess. Is that sort
of what you're expecting now? Is that
kind of where you're leaning in?
>> It is. And also, let's not forget like
breadth this year has been pretty good.
So, we've already seen a broadening out
like best performing sectors in 2025
have actually been things like
industrials. It hasn't necessarily been
just the mega caps. But then we've also
got to start thinking about a regime
shift which has already been discussed
in this forum here, which is what are
the Fed going to do? If we're going to
move away from a higher for longer
narrative to a lower interest rate
environment, consider the fact that
small caps, 45% of small caps are
variable interest rate debt. they're
going to get the direct benefit of
interest rate cuts. So we can
pontificate about whether Mr. Powell is
going to resign all the rest of it and
we will. However, however, the fact of
the matter is is that we will end up
with a replaced Fed chair uh at this
time next year and we are pretty
convinced that the path is of interest
rates is therefore lower. So we need to
think about less about the the near-term
and more about if interest rates are
lower, who's going to be the direct
beneficiary? So it's not just the AI
angle. You've got lower interest rates
and you've also got the positioning
which has been our guiding light since
the beginning of beginning of June. From
a positioning perspective, look at CFTC
data on small caps. It's currently the
most short since last summer, right
before we had that big squeeze as well.
>> Even before we get a new Fed chair, we
could see the Fed cutting interest
rates. When do you have this all timed
out? Well, so as Barclay's economists
have still two cuts for the year, so you
know, September, December, I I think
that at the end of the day, whether this
is one cut, two cuts in 2025, I wouldn't
say it's irrelevant, but I think I would
say it's marginal because we're trying
to sort of forecast. Remember, equities
are supposed to be a forward discounting
me mechanism. They're supposed to be
thinking 6, 12, 2 years out, especially
for longdated um securities that don't
have many profits today. So, in that
case, it really I don't think it matters
enormously. So for small caps, you want
to be exposed ahead of September.
>> Correct. Yes. I I think I think the
small cap story is really not just about
positioning, but it's about that Fed
pivot or dare I say, is the equity
market moving into a new regime away
from just thinking about the narrowness
of leadership and into something a
little bit more broad.
>> Strange things happen in August. Are you
hopeful we'll have one of those nice
quiet summers? I mean, I'm going on
vacation on Friday, so I would I would
very much hope so, but as you say,
August August is notoriously volatile.
Um, or or should I say August can be
notoriously volatile. If we all recall
last year what happened with the BOJ and
so on and so forth. I would say that the
fact is we still to your first question,
we still have that confluence of events
straddling month end and any of those
could potentially derail this low volume
environment.
>> What's volume like at the moment? Just
volume. volume. Well, it volume is okay,
but it's massively skewed by the retail
cohort. So, we're seeing um this
enormous turnover within a small number
of securities as a function of the small
investor, which is again a part of a a
larger disc.
>> Just follow up on that. What securities
are they concentrated in the ones we
talk about every day or different kind
of companies?
>> I mean, just I I for the purpose I won't
name specific names. Um but let's I'll
give I'll give you an example that four
security I think it was middle of last
week four securities accounted for 11%
of total NY volume. The collective
market cap of those four was 2.6 basis
points of US capitalization. So these
aren't stocks that you talk about on a
daily basis.
>> 11% of volume 2.6 basis points of market
cap.
>> Yes. Of US market cap.
>> That's amazing. Yes.
>> Have you ever seen it like that before?
>> Uh we have not. No.
>> What do you think's behind that?
>> So that that is I would say retail
euphoria. So you've had this prevalence
on shift of of obviously a multi-year
structural phenomenon postco where small
investors have become a larger and
larger proportion of the of the tape.
They now accounted for about 25%.
Systematic flows so quantitive flows
account for another 50%. And those
numbers have just been growing over
time. So the only time we came close to
this was in 2021. Obviously very
different real rate environment
>> but different backdrop completely. So,
I'm trying to figure out just in real
time what's unleashed this recent bout
because it feels like a very different
backdrop to where we were all those
years ago.
>> This goes back to my point of whether
are we in a bubble or not because we're
talking about animal spirits, we're
talking about euphoria, we're talking
about the fact that there's a lot of a
lot of small investors still haven't
lost their jobs, still getting income
growth, still basically seeing the stock
market at the highs. And if you remember
at the beginning of the year when we
spoke on this show, there's a
reflexivity in stocks the because the
economy is so financialized, 70% of
financial household net worth is tied to
the stock market. So on the way down it
feels terrible. On the way up it feels
fantastic.
>> Is this stupid money or is this smart
money? Because they've been the winners
and a lot of people used to dismiss this
and say it's a bubble and this means
that the market's going to tank. Are
people looking at this and saying this
means they're more gains ahead? Well, I
don't want to call them stupid money
because the fact of the matter is
they've made more money than most
professional investors have recently.
Um, I would just simply say that these
guys are doing what they've been doing
or conditioned to do, which is buy the
dip. I think what's important to
consider though is back to this regime
shift. Is the market telling us that
we're moving to a lower interest rate
environment where actually it's a lot of
the less profitable stocks that end up
being the market leaders? And if you
look at things like certain factor
behaviors, the only time we've seen this
before, these could what be engineered
as a short squeeze, but it's not a short
squeeze, 2009,
2020, and 2021. Neither of which were
just short squeezes. They were regime
changes. And so I think that's what
we're pointing towards. That's why we're
thinking about small caps more because
it may not just be the stupid small
investor. It may actually be something a
little bit more paradigm.
>> Those numbers are amazing. 11% of volume
across four names which account for 2.6
6 basis points of US market cap. Yeah,
>> unreal. Alex, good to see you. A lot to
think about. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
Alexman there of Barclays. Let's give
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara. Hey, Yhierra.
>> Hi, John. Treasury Secretary Scott
Besson is calling for an exhaustive
review of the Fed's non-monetary policy
operations, including the $2.5 billion
renovation of its headquarters. In a
post on X, Bessant says that significant
Mission Creek may be jeopardizing the
independence of the central bank's core
mission to set monetary policy.
Meanwhile, the Trump administration
released more than 6,000 documents
related to the 1968 assassination of
Martin Luther King Jr. yesterday,
despite opposition from his family. The
digital data dump includes more than
240,000 pages that had been under a
court imposed seal since 1977. In a
statement, King's two living children
urged the files be viewed within their
full historical context. And In-N-Outs
billionaire a ay Lindseay Snyder is
leaving California for Tennessee. She
said both raising a family and doing
business in the state is not easy.
Snider said the burger joint still wants
to keep a small footprint and despite
growing calls, she says In-N-Out won't
be expanding to the East Coast. A bummer
for us. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John,
>> she's out. There we go. Yahara,
appreciate it. Thank you. That was
terrible, wasn't it? All right. Up next,
the morning calls plus Nisha Madlani of
S&P Global reacted to GM earnings. That
conversation up next
[Music]
We're concerned about earnings. You
know, we're scheduled to do what? Middle
low, middle, single digits here this
quarter on EPS growth. That's going to
be the lowest in about 1 and a half to
two years. If corporations can't hold
those margins up, y'all were just
talking about the margins from
Coca-Cola. We saw margins go down with
GM, I think you start to see some of
that flow through to the consumer and
you see that weakening in the economy.
That was Victoria Fernandez across Mark.
The latest on the earnings, more
earnings coming up a little bit later.
We'll hear from Alphabet and Tesla
tomorrow. Eggly futures so far just
about unchanged on the S&P 500. Negative
by a tenth of 1% on the Nasdaq. Alex
Elman of Barclay's just moments ago
talking about volume. 11% of volume
driven by four names. Those four names
make up 2.6 basis points of US market
cap. They are not the names you're
thinking of.
>> They are tiny. They are specific. They
are the Reddit posts etc. But his
takeaway from that was really
interesting. It highlights the animal
spirits and it highlights the
conditioning of retail investors to keep
buying the dip. Does this indicate a sea
change, a paradigm shift? Not
necessarily dumb money, but this, but
sort of a smart take on where things are
going and a potential harbinger of more
gains ahead.
>> Record highs coming into Tuesday. Let's
get you some morning calls. First up, JP
Morgan cutting Lulu to neutral, citing a
more cautious and discerning consumer.
That stock is down by 1.2%. Your second
call from Steve raising its price target
on Alphabet to 218, seeing upside to the
company's estimates. And finally, City
raising its price target on Amazon to
265, expecting revenue and operating
income to top Wall Street estimates.
That stock is higher by about a third of
1%. Let's turn back to earnings. GM
seeing a blow from President Trump's
tariffs. A big number from that company
earlier on this morning. GM is down by
3%. With the details, let's cross over
to Bloomberg's Ed Lllo. Ed, not a great
number from that company.
>> No, but it's the immediate and
quantifiable impact of tariffs. So, it's
a $1.1 billion hit to adjusted earnings.
Um, bearing in mind the short period of
time that they've had this uh uh
exposure in time to do the math and
actually over the range of an annual
basis, they see it in the range of 4 to
5 billion. And so, GM like every other
uh industrial American company with
exposure to a supply chain that ranges
from Mexico to parts of Europe and and
Southeast Asia is doing what it calls
mitigation. But as you see the stock
down 3%, John, this is a story where it
actually beat expectations in large part
of what was baked in, but profit is
taking a real beating from policy and
and you can't shy away from that.
>> Ed, of the big three in Detroit plus
Tesla, who's in a more vulnerable
position here in the face of these
tariffs?
>> Uh, the the big three more so than
Tesla. I mean, the way that Tesla's
always put it is that it's the least
exposed to tariffs because of the
concentration of supply chain in in
North America, particularly the USA.
However, Mexico is still an issue for
Tesla, right? 20 to 25% of components
come from that nation. And the way that
that Elon Musk put it on the last
earnings call is tariffs are hard when
margins are already low. Tesla, of
course, has historically had uh
industry-leading margins. If you call it
an automaker, um, you know, of course we
can debate whether it's valued as a tech
company and its future in AI and
robotics, but at the end of the day,
they're still going to feel a bite, just
less so than the Detroit 3. Ed,
appreciate the update. Looking forward
to the program a little bit later, Ed
Blau alongside Caroline Hyde at 11 a.m.
for Bloomberg Technology about 3 hours
away. Joining us now to extend the
conversation, Nishit Madlani of S&P
Global Ratings. Nishit, welcome to the
program, sir. Let's just talk about the
kind of mitigation strategies these
companies have introduced over the past
few months. What are they doing to
navigate the storm?
>> Yeah, first of all, thanks for having
me. Look, like you said, I mean there's
been lots of uncertainty, especially
around March and April around tariffs,
shifts in trade policy. It just weakens
consumer sentiment and it's created
volume volatility. So what they can do
uh you know just is specific to
companies like GM where tariff cost
mitigation is is very important to
offset the four to 5 billion impact that
they're expected to have. So things they
can do is try and leverage the
duplicative capacity they have. So for
example, they've decided to relocate
some of their pickups to Fort Wayne uh
localized production of their battery
modules and just ensure that they have
better supply management because there
are suppliers and internal facilities
here that can be utilized better within
the US.
>> How much can they automate some of this
to offset some of the higher costs of
labor in the United States? So bring
more manufacturing back to the United
States and have more robots essentially
in the factories.
>> Yeah. So that's something they haven't
quantified but but it's certainly part
of the playbook right if you look at
what's happened in terms of
manufacturing efficiency across
companies there has been increasing use
of automation not to the same scale as
Tesla uh but it is certainly catching up
and of course with the the moves
announced by them in terms of improving
the utilization that's the first step
because by adding about 300,000 units of
additional pickup truck capacity within
the US that just helps overall
utilization as well
>> this raises a question of how they
invest in some of the production and
moving production to the United States
uh to get around tariffs while also
cutting costs to offset some of the hit
that they're seeing from those extra
levies. How do you expect them to do
this?
>> Yeah, look, this is one thing where we
have a lot of credibility that we've
assigned to the company's management
team. They have a solid team, great
track record and despite external
shocks, they've maintained lot of
discipline in achieving their targets,
whether it's pricing or just just making
sure that inventories are not overbuilt.
On a cost standpoint, look, they've
they've mitigated all kinds of cost
headwinds through their internal
efficiencies. They've made sure that
they're not overengineered. They they
also ensure that from a supply chain
perspective, they're less exposed to
bottlenecks that seem to be more of a
common issue for their peers versus
them. So I think overall just a better
handle of of overall execution from the
management team.
>> Are they at some point going to need to
raise prices though of their auto auto
vehicles?
>> Yes, I'll say look that's inevitable,
right? I mean if you look at the way
they've quantified the the impact of
prices, you know.5 to 1% type increase.
We think that going forward over the
next couple of quarters with the the
pressure that the consumer is facing uh
it's going to be hard to maintain
something more than that. But at the
same time, GM, Stellantis, Volvo car,
those are the ones that have the largest
cost exposure. So our expectation is
that we probably won't be surprised to
see low singledigit type price increases
stepping into next year and a lot of
that will have to be bone by the
consumer.
>> So that's a 2026 story. When you look at
all of these automakers, who do you
think is weathering the tariff headlines
and the 25% levy on the auto sector the
best?
>> Yeah, look, it's it's early days, right?
I mean we we've heard about mitigation
strategies. Like I said GM's positioned
itself well to to make sure that even
though it has a very large impact
compared to its payers they are
positioned to offset at least 30% of it.
In terms of exposure obviously some
companies have have a lower footprint uh
you know outside the US those tend to
benefit. They have less headwinds to
combat but overall I would say you know
compared to Stantis and Volvo I've seen
more progress being made at GM. Nisha,
going forward, do you see a scenario
where many of these automakers based in
America don't have a presence in Europe
anymore?
>> Look, it it is a possibility. A lot of
automakers like GM have have obviously
done a lot of restructuring in that
market and focused on on just very
specific marquee products that they
export from here. So, I wouldn't be
surprised if a lot of other automakers
take that stance where they minimize it
to their absolute profitable brands. uh
because obviously that's a very
expensive area to operate in. So I I
would think that that's probably the
playbook they'll they'll apply and it it
obviously depends on political cycles,
right? Because product cycles outlast
political cycles.
>> True. True. It's a good final point.
Thank you, sir. Nish Madlani there of
S&P Global on the latest earnings from
GM and a whole lot more. We know that
the most competitive, one of if not the
most competitive market on the planet is
the Chinese auto market and the future
there is clearly going to be dominated
by Chinese players. for Europe. I wonder
if the same thing's going to happen over
in Europe with the Chinese dominating
that market too going forward,
>> which would be a disinflationary force,
which is something that you've talked
about, right? Is that what you're going
to end up seeing that causes the ECB to
cut rates more aggressively going
forward? And we're going to hear from
the ECB later this week. Let's hear if
they say anything about Chinese uh
products coming to
>> maybe causes these US auto players to
back out of the market entirely.
>> Well, that's what I'm actually
wondering. If you have the one-two punch
of trade tensions between the US and
Europe and you have cheaper vehicles
coming from China, how much does that
start to really dominate a European
market and transform it in ways that a
lot of people aren't really thinking
about right now? Important final point,
products outlast politics. Which is why
many people on the other side of some of
these trade negotiations are saying this
is one an individual who is done after
this term and potentially we can ride
this out because maybe there'll be
better trade deals on the table if
Washington was to have a changing of the
guard.
>> Once that money starts coming into
Washington, that tariff revenue, we'll
see if anyone wants to give that up.
>> They never end up coming off. That's
what happens. Happened in 1939. saw that
over the last few years with China as
well.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with Andrew Holdenhorse of City on his
call for a Ray Cup in September.
[Music]
The opening bow 60 minutes away. Equity
futures just turning positive. We're
positive here by 0.06%.
And with an update on your morning
movers, let's cross over to Danny Burger
for more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Just want to give you another
look at GM. You were just talking about
their shares falling 2.5% booking a $1.1
billion hit when it comes to cost
related to tariffs. There's a lot of
questions yet to be answered from GM as
to whether this is the worst, what
things look like from here, but we are
selling first and asking questions
later. 2 and a half% decline in the
pre-market. Northern Trust though those
shares are to the upside this morning by
2.7%.
Semaphore reporting this morning that
the Goldman Sachs CEO David Solomon had
a conversation with Northern Trust not
that long ago about possibly buying the
bank that they're looking to beef up
their exposure to some lowcost ETFs.
Those conversations could heat up
according to that reporting. Finally,
some other earnings to go through.
Philip Morris also reporting earnings
this morning. Shares falling 4.3%.
That's despite the fact that they raised
guidance really around their smokeless
tobacco products like those weird little
zin pouches you put in your lip that are
quite disgusting. But anyway, they fell
because expectations were really high.
They rallied 50% into these earnings
reports but missed on organic revenue.
So investors really catching on to
anything they can and those shares
falling. John
>> Danny, thank you. Thank you very much
for the latest on the stock market.
Let's turn to the bond market. US 10ear
yields falling four straight days coming
into Tuesday. Ara Jersey of Bloomberg
Intelligence joins us now for more. Ara,
welcome to the program. It's not a major
rally, but it's a rally. We'll take it.
Yields are lower. What's behind the
move?
>> Yeah, I think there's some comfort here
a little bit that uh that demand from
foreigners isn't completely drying up.
And you know, we did come uh we did hit
5% on the long end and uh you know, once
we hit that, we did see some uh some
liability driven investors uh you know,
take notice and and start to buy a
little bit in the long end. you know,
like you said, it's not a massive rally,
but at the same time, I think it shows
that there's some stability in uh both
the demand and the supply side, at least
for now. And, you know, we're going into
this week where next week we have the uh
quarterly refunding announcement where,
you know, Secretary Bessant is going to
for the first time say, "Hey, here's how
we're going to issue bonds." And right
now, it seems like maybe there's not
going to be any new 10-year bonds uh
being created uh above and beyond what's
uh what's already expected. So Ira, with
that question in mind, thinking out
going forward from here, what's the
incentive to push out more issuance
along the curve?
>> Yeah. Well, you know, historically
speaking, when you go back the last 40
years, uh interest rates are still
relatively low. Not as low as they were,
you know, a decade ago, but uh but
compared to where they were in 2005 and
1995 and 1985, uh interest rates are
still relatively low. I I I think that
for when it comes to the how Treasury
has to issue debt, it's really where do
they think demand is going to be and um
and you know you want to issue bonds
where you know and and other debt where
it's easily absorbable number one and
number two you have to think about how
is the refinancing of that. So if you
only issued T bills, then you're
refinancing that every 3 three to four
months and you don't want to be beholden
on, you know, what's the market appetite
in 3 or 4 months when you have the
opportunity to buy, you know, to issue
twos, fives, tens, and 30s. So um I I
think that that they will uh keep coupon
stable this quarter. Uh we had always
expected them to be. Um but we actually
just put out a note this morning that's
available on the Bloomberg terminal um
suggesting that maybe now because of
this policy by the Trump administration
they won't increase the size of five
tens and everything else until next May
when they kind of have to otherwise T-
bill's outstanding is just going to grow
to a very massive amount. Ira, just
taking a step back, how global is the
bond market right now and how much are
the yield moves that we're seeing in the
US affected by what's going on around
the world as much as the domestic
landscape?
>> Well, foreign investors are still a very
important uh incremental buyer of
treasuries all throughout the curve,
particularly in in you know the the two
to fiveyear sector is usually where
central banks and foreign reserve uh
managers play. And then the long end is
where pensions and other liability
driven investors tend to see strong
demand. So we always talk about things
like uh like Taiwanese insurers for
example wind up being large buyers of
long-end treasuries. Um they they're
very important but not as important as
they were say 10 12 years ago. 10 or 12
years ago about 50% of US treasuries
were being purchased by uh by
foreigners. Um that's way less than a
quarter today, right? So, so you wind up
with a where with with shift things
shifting more domestic uh in the US as
savings rates have gone up a little bit
as interest rates are a little bit more
attractive you have seen more domestic
uh buying and of course you know the
Federal Reserve even though they're
they're continuing to shed treasuries
very slowly they still own a lot of
treasuries themselves so so they're are
much larger um they they're not an
incremental uh buyer of the market and
and and a price setter anymore like they
were when they did QE but they still own
a fair share of the market.
>> Ara Jersey of Bloomberg Intelligence.
Ara, thank you. If the Federal Reserve
wanted us to stop talking about the
Federal Reserve, this is how you do it.
You host a conference on the integrated
review of the capital framework for
large banks. What a name they came up
with over there, eh?
>> Sounds. I'm excited to hear about what
they uh come up with on regular.
>> Expecting Chairman Powell to take the
stage any moment from now to address the
integrated review of the capital
framework for large banks.
>> What does that even mean? I mean, it's
sort of vaguely we're going to look at
bank stuff and balance sheets and
anything other than what everyone keeps
talking about.
>> If there is some Q&A, and I don't know
if there will be any, but if there is,
this is still an opportunity to ask
about the obvious.
>> Yeah. Will you step down? Do you plan to
resign? He'll say no. They'll say, "Do
you feel like this is compromising
anything that you do at the Fed, the
fact that every single day you get an
expose or a truth?" And he's going to
say, "No." And then people are going to
struggle to ask the same question 15
more ways. And then we do it all again
next week at the news conference with
chairman pal after the monetary policy
decision. Here's the view on Wall Street
this morning. Andrew Honhorse of City
writing the Fed remains on course to
resume rate cuts in September. Andrew
joins us now for more. Andrew, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Why September and what's leaning in that
direction already?
>> Well, I think there's kind of a
fundamental argument around September,
which is the slowing that we've seen in
core inflation. We still have tariff
effects upcoming, but services
especially look like they've slowed
down. labor market looks strong, but
beneath the surface there are some
details that look a little bit
concerning. You'd want to be moving
towards neutral. That's a fundamental
explanation. But then there's also just
the Fed rhetoric explanation. They've
set this up now. They've said, "We're
going to watch the data over the summer.
Uh we're going to make a decision in
September in their dot plot. They've got
two rate cuts this year, 50 basis points
of rate cuts this year. That would also
make sense with a September cut." So,
they've kind of set it up for September.
You could argue it's going to be
premature in September to know how big
an effect from tariffs we're going to
get or not in inflation. It's not clear
that that's really the month when you're
going to have all questions answered,
but looks like that's where they're
headed
>> on the labor market. In their last
statement, the labor market conditions
remain solid. Can they repeat that line
this month?
>> I think they can still say that there
there is a debate about how solid is
solid. Some Fed officials have used the
word solid. Other Fed officials have
used the word fragile. So, you kind of
wonder how can the labor market be solid
and fragile at the same time. You look
at the headline, you know, we're getting
140,000 jobs per month. That's a strong
reading. Uh 4.1% unemployment rate. That
also looks solid. But then you look
beneath the surface and you see those
145,000 jobs. Well, really half of them
were in the government sector and
there's probably some seasonal
adjustment issue there. um you look at
that unemployment rate, part of the
reason it's low is because the
participation rate has gone down and
that's because some workers are actually
leaving the workforce because they're
not finding jobs. That doesn't look as
strong. So I I think there is this kind
of coexistence of a topline number, a
headline number that that looks
resilient and the labor market overall
has been resilient, but then these
details that that do cause you some
concern.
>> We uh often say the stock market is not
the economy. The stock market's not the
economy. We see the stock market doing
really well on the heels of earnings uh
by companies that are doing really well.
How do you counter companies doing very
well with an overall backdrop that you
see as weakening as less favorable just
overall?
>> Yeah. So if we look at the economic
data, you look at services spending. I
think good spending has been very
volatile. So it's hard to read too much
into that. Services spending we've been
slowing and that's really been the
engine of growth for the US economy. You
see that in Q1. I think we're going to
see that again in Q2. And that's telling
us that that consumer demand is slowing
down. We have a real mystery now if you
kind of look at the data because we know
someone is bearing the cost of tariffs.
It could be foreign exporters, it could
be domestic firms, it could be
consumers. We don't see consumer prices
going up a lot yet. We don't see foreign
exporters reducing their prices a lot,
at least in the data. So then that that
would say that some domestic firms are
absorbing some of these costs. That that
should be negative. Um maybe not
reflected in what we're hearing so far.
So why do you think that we're not going
to see any kind of inflationary pressure
that would pressure the Fed maybe to
remain on hold despite some of the noise
that we're hearing from Washington DC?
>> So I think we will see some inflation. I
I don't think that that's going to end
up constraining the Fed in a big way.
And that's because the inflation that
we're going to see is going to be in
goods inflation. Now if you looked at
the June inflation report, you could
kind of see it two ways. On the one
hand, we didn't have a big inflationary
effect. On the other hand, you had a few
categories of goods, home furnishings in
particular, where you're seeing some of
those early tariff effects, and we'll
probably see that in some other
categories of goods. But the the big
question, and this is what Governor
Waller has really emphasized, the big
question is, is this going to be just
restricted to goods inflation, or is
this something that broadens? Are we
getting broad-based pressure in services
inflation, in wages that are going up,
and just a general inflationary trend in
the economy? There's no evidence that
that's what's happening here. Do we need
to have the final rates to understand
that story?
>> I I don't think we can wait until we
have the final rates. You would like to,
right? And that that kind of goes back
to, you know, is September the right
month to to be moving. If the objective
was to wait until you had all questions
answered, they're not all going to be
answered in September. Maybe you'll have
some clarity on the August 1st, but
maybe not, right? Some of these
negotiations may continue. And then even
if new tariffs go into effect August
1st, we know where those rates are. How
much do they pass through to consumers?
What is the timeline on that? What's the
extent of that tariff increase? We're
not going to have all those questions
answered.
>> Say it is just a 10% baseline overall,
then maybe some different intricate
deals for bigger partners. Do you think
companies will be forced at all to pass
on to consumers or they're going to hold
what they're doing right now, which to
eat a lot of it?
>> I I mean, I think you'll see some of
that passed on to consumers. Like I was
saying, we're seeing some price
increases already, but um 10% that's
pretty manageable. I think that that's
something that that you know firms
largely could internalize and you
probably don't see that much passing
through into consumer prices.
>> How and could our inflation expectations
both consumer based and market based?
>> Yeah, I mean it depends a little bit on
which measure you look at and then you
can really get into the issue of are you
just cherrypicking the one that you
like?
>> What do you think is more credible?
>> Well, University of Michigan is the one
that's been all over the place, right?
That one was much higher. Now it's come
lower again. Um if you look at the New
York Fed expectations, those have been
more stable. I tend to look at the
market expectations. There are issues
with the market expectations, too. I'm
not saying that there aren't. Um, but at
the end of the day, people are putting
money on the line on those expectations.
Those are expectations that in some
sense um are are a stronger read on what
people really think, what investors
think about inflation, and those have
not moved to levels that are concerning.
>> Right now, I'm looking right now at a
market that has just defied all
expectations when it comes to looking
through all of these ramifications. What
are you looking to hear from the Fed
next week? Well, I'm not sure that we're
going to get a lot of new information
from this Fed meeting. We know that we
have a pretty big division across Fed
officials. We have some that don't want
to cut at all this year. We have others
that think you should be cutting in
July. That's one interesting element of
this meeting. We could get a descent
from up to two governors. Uh Governor
Waller really sounded like he is
planning to descent at that meeting.
We'll see if he he goes through with
that. Um that's really notable. We had a
descent from Bowman in 2024. Before
that, you have to go back to 2005 before
you had a governor dissenting on rape
policy. Um, so that that would be kind
of a signal that there's a pretty big
division across Fed officials. Um, I
think what we'll hear from Powell is
wait and see. We're waiting to look at
the data over the summer. We're going to
tell you in September.
>> He's got to acknowledge the split on the
committee. Andrew, I don't think he can
get away with going into the news
conference to attempt to reflect the
consensus that doesn't exist. There's
clearly a division. You see that in the
SCP. You see that in the speeches from
all the Fed officials. How tricky is
that going to be in the news conference?
>> Yeah, I think this is very difficult,
right? this is this very very difficult
time for the chair when you have even
your governors right that that are you
know maybe at odds over what the Fed
should be doing. Um so I think what he
does is he goes back to the data that's
what you know Fed officials typically do
and say that's why we're waiting and
that's what we're watching in July and
August. Um and honestly probably hoping
to some extent from Chair Pal's
perspective that they will get a clearer
signal goes back to what we were
discussing with the labor market with
the inflation did you can read this data
a little bit two ways and that's part of
why there's a division. Maybe we'll have
some more clarity in the data by
September.
>> Andrew appreciate it. Good to see you.
Andrew Horse there of City Deutsch Banks
Matt Lazetti said it said it a few
times. Came on the show and said it.
This is not uncertainty. It's the vision
of the Fed that the chairman needs to
address.
>> And honestly, it's something that you
would expect at a turning point in an
economic cycle. You would expect people
to interpret it differently. People on
Wall Street interpret it differently.
How does he do this while still
remaining the position of chair who's
setting the tone on a Federal Reserve
that is increasingly fractured?
>> That news conference a week tomorrow.
Let's give you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. back with us. Here's
Yahihara. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Coca-Cola reported second
quarter sales growth that beat analyst
estimates as consumers continue to pay
higher prices for its soft drinks. And
because of that, the company raised its
fullear growth outlook. Coca-Cola also
confirms what President Trump posted
last week that it will launch a new
product made with cane sugar this fall.
Meanwhile, the owner of the Los Angeles
Times says he will take the paper public
over the next year. In an interview on
the Daily Show with John Stewart,
billionaire Patrick Sunun Xiang said the
move will allow the public to have
ownership of the paper. If he goes ahead
with an IPO, the LA Times would join the
New York Times and News Corp, among the
largest publicly traded news
organizations.
And City is asking its firstear analyst
to disclose whether they've already
accepted a job offer from another
company. According to a memo seen by
Bloomberg, the change is intended to
quote foster a fair and transparent
environment. Goldman has made a similar
move as banks look to clamp down on
recruitment by private equity firms.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Up next, we'll set you up for
the day ahead. Look ahead through the
rest of this week. Plus, the Space
Foundation CEO Heather Pringle with a
look at the booming space economy. That
conversation just around the corner.
[Music]
The hierarchy of goals for the Fed is
very clear. stable prices and full
employment above all else, financial
stability.
So, this is all just a bunch of game
playing. Once we get the jump in price
level due to tariffs, does that transmit
into second round inflation effects? And
that's what the Fed has to call. That
was Adam Posen of the Peterson
Institute. That is the Fed's call. Some
people on the committee are ready to
make the call. Governor Wallace is one
of them. Will he stick his hand up just
the next week and say, you know what,
I'm ready to go. Let's cut rates.
>> Probably he will. That was sort of the
indication. Will he have company though?
Mickey Bowman as well as maybe some
others as well.
>> And what will chairman Pal's argument
be? Not to do that. Find out next week.
Big T's future promo. Federal Reserve
decides a week tomorrow. Equity futures
on the S&P 500 positive by not even a
tenth of 1%. The opening bound just
around the corner. 30 40 41 minutes
away. As we count you down to the
opening bell, here's the trading diary.
The week ahead looks like this. At
11:15, President Trump meeting with the
president of the Philippines. On
Wednesday, results from Tesla and
Alphabet. Plus, President Trump
delivering an address on AI. Thursday, a
rate decision from the ECB and earnings
from Intel and American Airlines. Plus,
another round of jobless claims. And one
small data point into the weekend,
durable goods. Elsewhere, let's talk
about this. The Space Foundation out
with its latest quarterly report showing
global commercial revenue jumping 8%
from a year ago to 613 billion. the
leading driver, the private sector,
which accounts for 78% of the space
economy. Government budgets making up
the smallest portion of just over 130
billion. Potential catalysts for growth
include President Trump's Golden Dome,
Elon Musk Starink, and commercial space
flight. Joining us now to discuss is
Heather Pringle, the CEO of the Space
Foundation. Heather, welcome to the
program. Lots to work through here, but
the numbers that jump out to me are the
78% coming from private enterprise. Do
you see the private sector doing much of
the heavy lifting of the space economy
for the years forward and the
foreseeable future?
>> Absolutely. The commercial sector is
right now valued at $480 billion for
2024 and that is an 8% growth over the
prior year. And when we look at the 12
sectors that constitute the commercial
market, we look at position navigation
and timing which comprises $231 billion.
The number two service just behind that
is ground infrastructure and equipment
coming in at $123 billion. Both of these
subsectors showed a 10% growth over the
prior year. So with something like
position navigation and timing, this is
coming into every swipe, tap, and left
turn that you make using those global
navigation satellite services. Heather,
I'm struck by the fact that yes, the
private sector is the one that it's
leading the charge into space
exploration and space use uh and and the
space economy. And yet there's a huge
national security component to this with
the likes of China and Russia trying to
exploit this whole network, possibly
disrupting the United States. Based on
your research with the Air Force, your
service with the military, I'm just
wondering how prepared the United States
is for that in terms of government
coordination with the private sector.
Well, absolutely. The United States is
the number one investor in the global
space economy and this includes all
sectors, commercial, civil government as
well as national security. Now, you were
pointing out what the United States is
doing on the national security side. $49
billion of investment into our national
security enterprise. Over 90% of that is
going to the newest service that is the
United States Space Force. This is well
ahead of what we see. China is investing
for example on the civil government
side. The United States is investing 27
billion in the civil government uh space
economy. China's investing 17%. So we're
well ahead on that. You can also look at
the launch record. For example, the
first 6 months of 2025, the United
States is launching at a record 97
already launches uh these first six
months. China is only a fraction of
that, well under 20. So the United
States is leading. It's leaning forward
and it's doing a lot to prepare for
this. You mentioned Golden Dome as well.
This is a huge initiative valued at $175
billion dollar for the entire
development effort. It's going to have a
large commercial component. They're
looking at short timelines. They want
capability.
Whether it's everything from sensing to
tracking to intercepting and the
commercial space market is really ready
to deliver.
>> Well, the Golden Dome just locked in $13
billion. They named someone to be a
project leader. But this morning,
Reuters is reporting that Trump is
looking for alternatives to Musk's Space
X to lead that project. What companies
in the private sector could lead that
project in your view?
Well, this is going Golden Dome is going
to be a national security project led by
uh the recently confirmed fourstar
General Mike Gutline. Uh he'll be here
with us today uh at our program. But uh
to your point about who are the
commercial entities who can step up to
the plate, there are a number of
companies that are leaning forward
delivering capability. This is a
multi-layered
uh capability when you look at the
totality of what Golden Dome is. It's
launch, it's sensing, it's tracking,
it's intercepting. And so even if you
did take a deeper look at the launch
enterprise, there are over 14 companies
around the world who can deliver that 10
different nations. So it's a whole of
nation effort and there are a lot of
companies who are able and willing to
step up to the plate.
>> I guess what you're saying is if it's
not going to be SpaceX, there will be a
company that can fill that role. Do you
have a timeline of how long this project
can take?
Well, I would say there have to be a
number of companies uh whether it's
SpaceX or others who need to contribute
to this project. The scope of it is so
large that uh it really is going to take
a number of companies delivering these
different capabilities. As far as the
timeline, we are looking at uh the
president has announced that it should
be on a three-year timeline. So that's
looking for capabilities that are out
there that are fairly mature that are
tried and true and uh existing. So
that's what it'll depend on.
>> These numbers are getting bigger and
bigger. Looking forward to tracking this
story with you once again. The space
foundation CEO Heather Pringle there on
the size of the space economy.
>> I love the space economy discussions.
I've got to say I love the idea of what
can happen there whether we're all
entering sort of an Obi-Wan Kenobi Yoda
world. I mean honestly I mean all of
this all of the uh science fiction
coming to reality and how that is a
serious threat when it comes to uh
international warfare.
>> Prefer it when you talk about the bond
market.
>> Yeah. This is too existential.
>> Maybe that's her next broadcast.
>> I grew up with a family that watched
science fiction. I know that's going to
be a shocker to a lot of people.
>> I'm surprised at that. Really? I'm
surprised.
>> I didn't I didn't actually watch it, but
my father was
>> You didn't watch TV. That's
>> Well, yeah. He had a black and white one
that he pulled out from underneath the
piano.
>> You were allowed to watch some science
fiction
>> Saturday? Yeah. Saturday nights. It was
Dr.
>> There we go. Get the camera back to me.
Brema does not want it on her. Okay.
Tomorrow, Julian Emanuel of Ever. We'll
also catch up with Ella Hodger of Newton
Investment, Ben Calla of Bed, Republican
Senator Bill Hagedy of Tennessee from
New York. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.